---
layout: post
title: usernames
date: "2002-03-23T12:14:00Z"
---

I honestly don't remember what the first BBS I joined was, though it was
probably something like Allentown Tech or The Nucleus, both of which were
boring-but-dependable local boards.  I probably had to use my real name on
whatever it was.  Eventually, of course, I found out about boards that focused
less on PD software and HAM radio, and more on 0-day warez and post/call
ratios.  A handle was required.  Now, I'm not sure about all the handles I
used, or their order, but I'll try and reconstruct the history as best I can.

### Sherlock

In retrospect, this handle really wasn't so bad.  I'm pretty sure it was the
first one I adopted, though it might have originally been Sherlock Holmes.  I
think I generally felt out of place because most of the handles around evoked
spooky or geeky images, and mine evoked a stodgy English pipe-smoker in a goofy
hat.  Beyond that, it was just setting me up for a fall.

```
<Sherlock>  I can't get minicom to store numbers
<Azerty>  Try reading the man page, **Sherlock**.
<Sherlock> NO CARRIER
```

This never happened, to the best of my knowledge, but that's probably only
because this was only my handle for a few weeks, tops.

### Homes

This handle came directly after Sherlock, its obvious descendant.  I'm not sure
what possessed me to drop the 'l' from Holmes.  Possibly I thought it would be
more 'hip' and 'edgy,' but it's at least as likely that I just wasn't paying
attention to my spelling.  I was probably twelve, and hadn't actually read any
Sherlock.  That's probably why I couldn't get over the silly-hat-wearing
Sherlock image to begin with.

Homes was my handle for just about the same amount of time as Sherlock, and
remained my handle for a while on some boards where I'd registered under that
name and never bothered to try and get it changed.  Changing your handle was,
after all, an annoyance for the sysop and a sign of newbiehood.  I do remember
at least one person's derision for this handle:

```
Mr. Turtle: Homes, are you black?
Homes: No.
Mr. Turtle: Do you want to be black?
Homes: Um, no, I guess?
Mr. Turtle: Hmph.
```

Granted, BBS folk are surlier than most, but I still feel like this was a
particularly strange conversation.

### Neophyte

My shortest lived handle of all, I used this handle only briefly on one board,
and even there not long.  I don't remember the board's name, but it was
magic-related.  The sysop was, I think, The Accolyte.  "Ha-ha!" I thought, "How
about a magic-related name?"  I figured it would be thematic and amusing.  The
sysop broke in to chat with me.

```
<Accolyte> Are you a real neophyte?
<Neophyte> Um, what?
<Accolyte> Are neophyte, like, in magic?
<Neophyte> Er, this is just my handle
<Accolyte> Oh.  Because did you know, magic is real?
<Neophyte> Um.  I didn't know that.
<Accolyte> Yeah.  I've been learning it for a while now!
<Neophyte> Gee, that's great... +++ATH0
```

Maybe he was just being hilarious.  I just figured that the less attention I
garnered from nutzoid sysops, the better

### Nutzoid

Speaking of nutzoids, I'm pretty sure that was my username on Cuckoo's Cocoon,
an excellent Galacticomm multi-user BBS where I spent hours and hours playing a
multi-player door game called Flash Attack.  Of course, nutzoid might have been
my password.  I'll have to seek some confirmation on this.

### Futron

Several times, I tried to run my own BBS.  It went through several
incarnations, names, and software modifications.  I picked this handle when my
board was "The 31st Century."  I think it was, at the time, running UltiBoard,
my lame WWIV-derived system.  It was all pretty gimmicky and silly, but running
it taught me a lot about C, most of which I've since forgotten.

This board stayed up a while, so I used this as my handle just about
everywhere.  Being the sysop of a board didn't really get you any sort of
perks, especially when your board was mediocre, but it did get you some mild
recognition.  By the time I stopped BBSing, this was my handle just about
everywhere.  I also used this as my handle during my brief foray into CB radio.
Of course, that interest died before my BBSing hobby.

### Samael

This is without a doubt the handle that's seen the most hours logged against
it.  When I got my first ISP account, it was under this name, which I'd read in
Sandman and in which I'd gotten more interested as I read more about theology
and especially the Gnostics.  The name was relatively obscure, which meant it
was usually available.  I managed to get it at my first and second ISP, at
Boston U, and on many other smaller systems.

The only notable conflict I had was on irc.colorado.edu, where I had used the
nick during my first few IRC sessions.  IRC didn't, at first, interest me, and
when I came back a year or so later, I found that 'samael' had been registered
and was now always in #cybersex and #hottub.  I pleaded in vain to get my nick
back, or at least keep it out of those chans, but to no avail.

After a few years of using this username, people began to ask me, with growing
frequency, when I had first read Wheel of Time, and "isn't Robert Jordan
great?"  I hadn't ever heard of him, and still haven't read his books.  To be
honest, I actually resent that his books became popular enough to make me look
like a fanboy -- even if they came out before I picked the handle.  (Actually,
I think my first 'samael' account and the first Wheel of Time book are pretty
contemporary.)

I heard this annoying question enough to write a web page to which I could
refer people.
<!-- It's probably the oldest mostly-intact part of my pages. -->

Apart from lots of Robert Jordan questions, the only other problem I've had
with this nick is people who think it means my name is Sam.  Even once they've
been made to understand that it's Samael, not Samuel, they think my name is
Sam.  I am not Sam.  Well, and then there's the fact that my username is one of
the more formal names of Satan.  It's really less evil-sounding if find the
character the same places I read him.

### Acestus

I've been using Acestus, lately, because it's generally never taken and has
little to no connotation in people's minds.  It's usually free because it's an
intenional misspelling of Acestes.  Acestes is a name found at least twice in
notable places of antiquity.  In the Aeneid, he was a demi-god who fired an
arrow with such force that it ignited in mid-air, from the friction.  I picked
the name because of St. Acestes, however.  I haven't seen it many places,
though there's an entry in the [Saints Index](http://saints.catholic.org) at
catholic.org.  According to their index, Acestes was one of the guards assigned
to escort the apostle Paul to his execution.  On way the from his cell to his
death, Paul converted Acestes.  At the execution, Acestes professed his faith,
and was subsequently executed himself.

Maybe it's grim, but better (I think) to associate myself with a martyr than
with Satan.

**2002-04-24**: So, now I find out that Acestus was a character on Xena.  Maybe
I should just go by my name.  Or social security number.  HUGHLGUAHGL.
