---
layout: post
title : journal for 2002-10-14
date  : 2002-10-14T04:00:00Z

---
<h4>pain purifies me</h4>That's what the daemon hero says in Warlords Battlecry.  That's a fun game! Godfrey brought me home, in a less terrifying drive than was possible, after a night of LAN games at the office.  Warlords is somewhere between a Warcraft and Myth.  I like it.

I don't know why they call the demons "daemons," although I'm sure it has something to do with slightly reducing the number of people who say that their game makes people go sniping.  Penny Arcade linked to a few discussions in which people suggested that The Sniper in Washington was inspired by computer games.  What the heck!  Do they really think that playing Goldeneye made me any better with a gun?  It's played with a gamepad, for Pete's sake!  Anyway, whatever.  

I donated $2 to Penny Arcade, this month.  I want to see if Over Easy is any good.  I like PA, and I liked Hard-Boiled...

I watched a little of The Office, a pretty darn funny BBC show.  Matt had been talking about it and trying to get it on tape.  The whole season fits on one tape.  Their seasons here are like six episodes!  Anyway, as soon as I saw it, I knew I'd seen it before.  It must've been last time I was here, since the show isn't played on BBC America.  They only play Changing Rooms and Ground Forces.  This morning, their "now playing" bit on bbcamerica.com listed those two shows for, like, four hours straight.  Jeez!  There's so much stuff on BBC, I don't know why they only play two shows in the States.

Work is remaining depressing.  I really want to go home, a lot.  I miss Gloria, I miss my stuff, I miss my friends, and now I even miss my normal job.  At <em>my</em> job, I feel like I'm accomplishing something and moving forward, slowly.  Here, I don't.  I feel like I'm wasting my time and the company's money.

I really want another sticky toffee pudding before I go back to the States.

Nothing else worth mentioning, I think.

