---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2002-11-17"
date  : "2002-11-17T05:00:00Z"
---


## sloth

I have been fully unmotivated lately.

I have projects I'd like to work on at home, but when I get home, I just want to veg.  I have things to work on at work, but I'm getting overwhelmed with minutia and possibilities, so the real present is bogged down.  This has become a little depressing, because I feel like I'm really treading water.  I haven't even managed to get a dentist or physician appointment, or to join the gym.

As usual, I took solace in spending money, at least a little.  I picked up Gran Turismo 3 on Saturday, since I thought John would like it.  I was actually out looking for Office Space on DVD, which I snagged.  At EBX, I noticed that Cubivore was out, so I picked it up.  It's A-OK fine, so far.  The graphics and interface are totally N64, but it doesn't matter.  Like Animal Crossing, it has other merits.  Of course, that doesn't mean I wouldn't like to see better graphics.  Still, it's just fine.

John came by today, and we played some games and just hung around.  We played a good bit of Bushido Blade, which was good.  Gloria and I tried to convince him to read Lord of the Rings, but it didn't go so well.  I think the whole "elves and magic" thing puts him off.

I got Dad's IP masquerading going again, so he's got high speed access throughout the house again, which is good.  I told him that we need to make a plan for running nice wiring everywhere, but I'm afraid that he'll gather a lot of inertia having this basic access working.  I guess we'll see.  

Getting the IP masq working was a pain, because the box in the basement wouldn't even boot with a bigger-than-two-gig drive in it.  I forgot its root password, too, but when I finally resorted to booting to bash and changing /etc/shadow, everything still pretty much worked.  We even put up some new web content, although I'm not sure he understands how much he'll be affected by a huge swarm of requests.  We should probably put a faster, more stable machine in the basement.

My desk is a total mess.  The paperwork has been piling up, and I haven't been bothering with organizing it.  This can be partly (barley) blamed on my lack of staples.  We bought some today, so maybe that will help.  Who knows.

Anyway, I had a strong pint at dinner tonight, and it's been raining all day, so I'm feeling pretty tired.  I think it's time to clean up and get into bed. I'll try to write here more often again, starting tomorrow.  Yeah, that's it.

