---
layout: post
title : journal for 2002-10-29
date  : 2002-10-29T05:00:00Z

---
<h4>apartment stuff</h4>We looked at two more apartments today.  Both were nice, and both were a little small.  Our current place isn't huge, but it's pretty nicely sized for the price, and the location is great.  We talked about it, and we'd really rather not move.  The hassle of moving is a big one, and if it had a monetary cost associated with its hassilitude, it would be high.

Our landlord called, and gave us more information about what's going on, which is good.  Apparently our roofers are being jerks and just blowing him off.  He gave them a piece of his mind and, if they aren't here this weekend, he will have things taken care of while he takes them to court.  This is good news, especially because it's news at all.  Hearing nothing from him has been really annoying, and it makes it too easy to feel like he isn't doing anything.

As long as the mold goes away ASAP and the roof gets fixed shortly thereafter, I think we'll be OK staying.

Strangely enough, one of the places we saw today was being leased by another former neighbor.  He didn't recognize me, and I wasn't sure enough to ask if he was who I thought he was---but later investigation revealed that I was right. I guess it was good that I didn't say anything, because we're almost certainly not going to apply there, if things work out.  Of course, that place was only a block from here, so the location is prime.  In fact, it's right behind Hack's, which is extra prime.

Anyway, I'm going to talk to our landlord again and hopefully everything will come up daisies.<h4>work</h4>Work was busy, again.  I met with people, worked on specs, did some coding. The usual.  I've brought work home with me, which is never fun, but hopefully it will lead to work getting easier in general.  I need to clear up the backlog so that current, important stuff can start getting my time.  I'm hoping that the basis for some kind of standards of development can be put in place this week.

Anyway, it's like 2300 and I'm beat.  I didn't finish my brought-home work, but I'm too tired to care.  I will sleep, and then care in the morning.

