---
layout: post
title : journal for 2002-09-23
date  : 2002-09-23T04:00:00Z

---
<h4>work</h4>I had a <em>long</em> day at work, today.  I got in just after 0700 and got home around 1920.  I would've been out earlier, but setting up my new laptop took forever and the production database flaked out.  I guess the laptop didn't really contribute to my long stay;  if the db had remained sane, I probably would've left it for tomorrow.

So, yeah, I was issued a new laptop.  I'm probably the only person in the company to have a desktop <em>and</em> a laptop, because I asked if I could have our crappiest laptop, which would've otherwise just gone into storage.  I run Slackware on it, so I don't need a P4/4GHz, or whatever Windows XP is requiring these days.  Recently, with some of the layoffs, a few better laptops entered the realm of "storage material."  I've got a Latitude CPi R now, 400MHz.  It had a hard drive about twice as big as my previous system, so I thought I'd install Win2k for a dual boot.  Ugh!

Getting the old drive duped onto the second half of the new drive was easy, if mildly tedious.  The annoyance was getting a bootloader installed.  I had no way to boot to the drive from a floppy or CD, since it was ReiserFS'd and my only boot CD was Slackware 8.0, which doesn't do ReiserFS.  I tried a lot of different methods of installing LILO and GRUB from my linux machine at work, but nothing worked.  Finally, I gave up and brought it home.  I have a Slack 8.1 disc here, and that made everything easy as pie.  It's dualbooting properly, now.  It's frustrating how <strong>slow</strong> Windows can be on an relatively fast processor like a 400MHz P2!<h4>animal crossing</h4>Since I was late at work, I missed the Fall Sports Fair.  I asked Gloria to log in and get me the medal, and now I feel kind of lame about that.  I should've just lived without it!  Oh well!  It probably gets me points with the HRA.

I sent mdxi some tatami flooring, and Eric sent me a corrected code for oranges.  I hope my trees start bearing fruit before I take off!

