---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2002-10-13"
date  : "2002-10-13T04:00:00Z"
---


## rain rain rain rain rain rain

Who'd've thunk it?  Rain in Wales.

Strangely, there hasn't been that much rain since I arrived, but today helped make up for that.  It rained, hard, from dawn to dusk and past.  I didn't leave the apartment at all.  This was not a bad thing;  I relaxed.

I got up a lot earlier than Matt and had some cereal.  Gloria called, and we talked for a while.  I did some coding work and listened to some music.  Matt went out to run some errands and came back with a crossover cable.  We hooked up his PC to knaveofhearts and swapped some music.  I took all of his and he took a few hundred megs of mine.  It's too bad that he doesn't have all of his CDs ripped, as there's a lot of stuff I'd like to take home.  I might try to bring some of it to work over this week to rip.  At least I got the Beta Band, which is pretty cool stuff.

While things copied, Matt hooked up his laptop and (I think) worked on ERP foo. I did some work on Debug, which is actually making some progress, and did some work on my C.  I really need to get back in gear and plow through K&amp;R again.  I finished up to exercise 1-15 or so, tonight.  The next one was a little vague in definition, so I used that as an excuse to stop.

We had some late lunch and Matt went to work out, which he says he's put off for a few months now.  I should really try to get back into doing some amount of exercise, too.  Once I get back, I'll need to start cycling again, and maybe I'll look into a gym membership.  I could do with losing a hundred pounds or so. Ugh.

When Matt got home, we ordered some pizza, and it took nearly two hours to show up.  They said the rain slowed them down, but I find that odd.  What kind of pizza delivery place in <em>Wales</em> can't handle a little rain?  I mean, it's rainy, but I've seen much worse in Boston, and our pizza wasn't <em>that</em> late!

With the pizza mostly eaten, I'm beat.  Time to sleep.

