---
layout: post
title : journal for 2002-10-08
date  : 2002-10-08T04:00:00Z

---
<h4>bored</h4>Another day, another fast food lunch.  Today:  McDonald's.  I got a picture of some funny condiments, but nothing great:  mayo, wild mustard, curry.  I had chicken nuggets, which were just as crappy as they are in the States.

Breakfast and dinner were better.  Breakfast: a bowl of "Sugar Puffs."  They're basically just like Honey Smacks, but without the frog on the box.  For dinner, a bowl of "pot noodles" (i.e., ramen) and toast.  That was nice, actually.  It was light, not too anything, and reminded me of lunch at home.  (Well, the bottle of Gr&ouml;lsch with the noodles wasn't like lunch at home, but...)

Work was lame.  I still couldn't get anything done, so tomorrow I'm going to work on a different part of the problem.  I want to go home and do REAL programming.  I feel like Marvin:  "Pick up that piece of paper, Marvin."

Godfrey lent me Fawlty Towers, but I haven't had a chance to watch it yet.  I don't think Matt has a DVD player.  His TV is wee, anyway.  I might try to just DivX it and watch them with Gloria, at home.  I want to go home!

I stayed in tonight, anyway, and tried to get some rest.  Matt's broadband was hesitant at first, but then started working for me, so I checked my mail and did a little bit of poking at the Debug code.  I'm getting some ideas for enhancing its image handling, but I'm not sure if they're insane and stupid. I'm going to talk to the rest of the AWG about it.

That's all.

