---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2002-10-22"
date  : "2002-10-22T04:00:00Z"
---


## work

Well, I went back to work today and told lots of people (who asked) how my trip was.  Strangely, people with whom I never even speak asked.  It was mostly a nice little occurance.

I wanted to spent today reorganizing my Exchange inbox, which has become bloated to nearly 500 messages.  Instead, I was kind of stumbling through things, getting my workstation back into the state it was when I left.  I had some little meetings about needed work on projects and tried to remember what I needed to do, in general.  I forgot my glasses, which put another obstacle in the path of my getting anything done.

I guess I'm going to try to get today's work done tomorrow.  I wish I had a lackey!

## play

Last night, I picked up Timesplitters 2 and Star Fox Adventures.  From my limited experiences, so far, I'd say that Timesplitters 2 is really great, and that the hype about it being a good heir to Goldeneye is true.  Star Fox, though, is not super impressive.  The graphics are great, but I feel---as many reviewers have said---like it's all about collecting lots of boring objects.  I like completing quests, not playing Mister Pick-Up.  Still, I've probably played about one half percent of the game.  I should shut up and see how it goes.

Anyway, Timesplitters is good.

My Animal Crossing has faded over my time in Wales, and I'd like to get it back in gear.  It's a fun game, but I don't feel very involved in town events.  I need to try writing some more letters or something.  I'll get my second story today, and then I need to try to decorate it, so maybe that will provide motivation.

