---
layout: post
title: scrabble
date: "2002-11-01T11:55:00Z"
---

Everyone probably knows what Scrabble is, but I'll explain it anyway.  It's a
board game.  The board consists of a 15 by 15 grid of squares and there are
100 playing pieces marked with a letter of the alphabet and a point value.
Players use their pieces to spell out words on the grid, always intersecting
with previously played words.  Many squares have value modifiers that alter
the scoring of a word, but, generally, each word is scored by the modified
sum of its letters' points.

I enjoy Scrabble.  It's not that I have a lot of fun playing Scrabble, because
Scrabble isn't really fun.  My enjoyment doesn't come from any sort of sense of
superiority, either:  I'm not very good at Scrabble.  The simple fact may be
that I enjoy it because it's an interesting and somewhat pointless endeavor.
These seem to catch my interest.  My belief, though, is that Scrabble is
interesting mostly because it forces one to think about words in a way
completely contrary to the normal way.

Normally, we think about words in three ways:  Definitionally,
representatively, and phonetically.  For example, we might wonder or ask:

### What words mean the plot of ground about a sundial?

That's definitional.  We're looking for a word based on its meaning, and if
we're lucky, we can think of the word we want:  *wabe*.  We do this all the
time when talking. Usually, it's not quite volitional:  we have a meaning to
express and we do so effortlessly through language, picking out the right words
as we go.  When we ask definitional questions, we're phrasing them in terms of
other definitions, which in turn recurse to further definitions.  To answer the
question above, we must first know "plot", "ground", "sundial", and the
articles and pronouns.  Eventually, these questions become representative.

### What is the word for the object of which I am thinking?

That's a representative question.  It's a lot like a definitional question, but
the profound difference is that we phrase it in terms of a concept, and not a
word.  This is an interesting phenomenon, especially considering the fact that
some hermeneutical philosophers (like Gadamer) believe that all thought and
experience is *worded*, meaning that it occurs through language.  Still, there
are moments of confusion when one can see an object in one's mind eye and find
no way to name or describe it.  It is worth noting that being able to describe
an object in words but not name it is a definitional problem, but that merely
*conceiving* of an object (or quality, relationship, or action) without finding
words to describe it is a representative problem.

### What's a word that starts with the letter Q and rhymes with spinach?

That's a phonetic question.  Here, we don't care what the word means or
represents.  We only care how it sounds.  It's interesting to note, here, that
we often answer these questions by listing sounds that match and then asking
ourselves if they are words at all.  This may be the closest normal method of
word-handling to Scrabble.

----

These queries can be stacked, too.  Writing poetry, we might look for a word
meaning "love" that rhymes with "esophagus".

Scrabble, though, asks us to find words anagrammatically.  That is, we are
given a set of letters (not, it is important to note, sounds) and asked to come
up with a word.  Further, I would describe Scrabble's question as weighted and
restricted.  It is *weighted* because one is rewarded disproportionately for
using certain letters and positions.  It is *restricted* because every possible
answer is not allowed.  The player must build from an existing word and may not
intersect other words when the intersection will create gibberish.

Anagrams, words formed by rearranging the letters of other words, have been
around for a long time.  They're still a popular word game, and it's
interesting that Scrabble calls itself a "crossword game" and not an "anagram
game."  Crosswords pose definitional questions, and Scrabble does not quibble
over meaning.  I believe it's because many more people enjoy crosswords than
enjoy anagrams, despite the fact that anagram games ("Word Scrambles") still
appear in most daily newspapers and game books.  Why should one form of word
question be more popular than another?

Meanings of words (especially *roots*) are often nearly arbitrary on the
surface:  why is a cat called a cat?  Partly because of this, we must ask
representative questions.  These provide a direct route from perceive object to
representing word.

Other words are composite, and can be decompiled into root words to find a
pointer to meaning.  For example "asynchronous" is a composition of "a"(not),
"syn" (together with), and "chronos" (time).  It means "not at the same time".
Words like these are excellent for asking and answering definitional questions,
because a properly constructed compound word can answer its own definitional
question.

Finally, the sounds of spoken words are compiled from the words' component
letters, and a heard word can be decompiled from sound into letters.
Although the phonetic (sound to spelling) relationship is not one-to-one in
most phonetic languages, it is not arbitrary.  With relatively few
exceptions, a literate person can pronounce any written word and write any
pronounced word with a fair degree of accuracy, answering phonetic
questions.

While those three types of query are specific to words, anagrammatic
rearrangement can be applied to any sequence of items, even if the sequence is
meaningless.  As the letters of a word may be reorganized, so may be the digits
of a number, the words of a sentence, or notes of a musical composition.
Anagrams of words are especially interesting, though, because the meanings of
created words are almost completely unrelated to their component letters, and
the sounds of created words are only marginally more related.  Further, while
"veftacrol" is an anagram of "Lovecraft", "volt farce" seems preferable because
it has meaning.  "Volt farce" answers the anagrammatic question, but why is the
question asked?  Only for word games.

That suggests, to me, that because Scrabble is based on a skill of no immediate
use, it is either a purely intellectual exercise with no practical analogue, or
it is, itself, the analogue of another form of practical intellectual activity
that I cannot name.  I am tempted to believe the latter, but for no other
reason than this:  I like Scrabble.  I want it to mean something.
