---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2002-05-14"
date  : "2002-05-14T04:00:00Z"
---
<h4>programming</h4>What with Debug relatively stable, I'm feeling like writing some more fun code. Code at work has become pretty deathly boring:  with no time for optimizing or extending concepts, I'm just supporting and fixing ancient, brain dead software.  I'm back to doing work on a relational database that, in a strict sense, violates the first normal form.  Hey, it's a living!

Anyway, I'm working on a 'book server.'  I've long had a crappy half-finished HTMLized version of <a href='http://www.manxome.org/alice'>Alice</a> online, but I haven't wanted to spend a lot of time beautifying the books, because it's such a high investment for a one-time solution.  There's not much return on the initial investment, when I decide to publish an edition of another book.  So, I'm working on a program that will compile index and content pages for books when provided with a directory tree.  Once I have more of a spec in place, I'll post it. 

Meanwhile, I don't even have a name for the project.  My previous (half-aborted) library project was called Alexandria, and was supposed to give me a nice interface to the database of the books I own.  I never made a good input mechanism, which meant that it kept falling out of date, which meant that I didn't find it useful.  So, I need to fix that.  I thought about transferring the name to this project, but it seems like such a grand name for such a (so far) mediocre project!  Keith suggested "Bookshit," which I think might be too far to the other end of the spectrum.  I could stick with a nice Neil Gaiman allusion and call it "Lucien."  Anyway, naming won't matter until it actually does something.<h4>rain rain rain rain rain</h4>By yesterday evening, we had flood warnings, thunderstorm warnings, and there were tornado warnings nearby.  It was all over this morning, and all we'd had was a ton of rain.  My office, like a cave, is entirely protected from any sort of outside view, but I understand that it's beautiful weather out, today.  The rain was a welcome change, given that we've had nearly no rain for months.  

Sunday night, though, it was not so welcome.  I woke up at three o'clock in the morning to the sound of someone hammering on a hollow metal box.  Despite all my efforts to ignore the noise, I couldn't get back to sleep.  As I drifted further into consciousness, I realized it was rain spilling from the gutter onto the AC.  

Gloria tried to muffle it from the inside, but to no avail:  it was <strong>way</strong> too loud.  I finally braved the rain (which was actually less annoying than the cold, wet fire escape) and put a wooden plank on top of the AC.  That seemed to do the trick.  Once things are dried up, I'm going to try and fix the rain gutter---or maybe I'll just ask the landlord to do it.<h4>tom waits</h4>Tom Waits actually came out with two albums last week.  I picked up the second, "Alice," on Friday.  It's pretty good, and has one or two great tracks, but is a clear second to Blood Money, which I'm coming to like quite a lot.  "All the good in the world you could fit inside a thimble and still have room for you and me."  Good stuff.

