---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2002-09-05"
date  : "2002-09-05T04:00:00Z"
---

## programming

In his writing about what Cobalt would do, mdxi mentioned some <a
href='http://docs.collapsar.net/cobalt/newcals.html'>new calendar formats</a>
that CoR2 would handle.  I got a little bored, today, and implemented them in
Debug.  I did a little poking at making an alternative entry template, but it's
not so great.  I imagine that it'll look just awful under MSIE... and a little
testing proves it.  Jeez.

> John: gosh, can you imagine a m$ product design meeting?
> RJBS: When I try to imagine it, I just think, "No one could be that evil."

I feel like, if CSS2 has been around since '96, and MS still barely supports
any of it, when the hell are they going to support CSS3 and XForms and XHTML2
when they come out?  It's depressing, or at least frustrating!

On a lighter note, I'm mostly done writing a "fun" new style, OJ.

## play

Only one shine get today.  I'm stuck on all (almost) Secret Cave Himitsu
levels, which are pretty killer.  I'm getting pretty good at getting
*near* the shine, but not quite to it.  I'm eager to get sixty shines,
which is, I think, when I can get sunglasses.  Sadly, I don't think they do
anything for me.  Maybe I'll never actually finish SMS, much like I never
finished... um.  Well, I know there's some N64 game I have that I could never
beat, and it bugged me.  Of course, I never can beat Smash Brother's hard
settings to get the top secrets.  Fortunately, the top secrets never really
impressed me.

