---
layout: post
title: software
date: "2002-03-14T12:11:00Z"
---

For over a year now, I've been working at the same job.  It's a pretty good
job.  I make enough to pay the bills and still have spending money, I'm doing
something I generally enjoy, and I don't have much of a commute.  My job title
is 'Information Technology Developer.'  I do a lot of different things, but my
core duties revolve around writing software.  As someone who deals daily with
writing, implementing, and modifying software, I have some opinions on the
subject.

### free software

The company where I work is a "Microsoft shop," and uses proprietary software
almost exclusively.  My boss' take on our reasons for this is that we cannot
afford to implement a system based on free software, because administrating and
supporting such a system is more expensive in human resources.  I have slowly
come to hold the opposite opinion: not only do proprietary information systems
have a higher monetary cost (price tag,) they also consume more human
resources.

Most well-designed software functions essentially as a [black
box](/blog/2002/03/the-black-box/), providing simple services such as text
processing, data munging, or network operations.  This software is useful
because it is predictable and can be replaced with a more efficient system
seamlessly.  That is, the old interface continues to work, although it may have
been extended.  To some extent, proprietary software is occasionally designed
this way, but in proprietary software, additions may be made, but core
componants may not be replaced.

In giving thought to the question of [software
freedom](/blog/2002/01/software-freedom/), I have concluded that the current,
popular method of developing software -- that is, the idea of a corporation
which exists solely to produce software -- is only beneficial to the software
company.  New methods, already existing, need to become the norm for the sake
of all users.

### programming languages

I've picked up a fewlanguages over the years, though I haven't managed to grok
any of the in fullness.  I program mostly in [Perl](https://www.perl.com),
though [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org) is quickly becoming my new favorite.
