---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2002-07-10"
date  : "2002-07-10T04:00:00Z"
---


## work

Work's gotten better as the week's gone on.  Today I managed to finish the two big tasks for the latest milestone (twelve) of MASH, so once they're tested I can move on to new code.  In celebration, I started a little work on my documentation audit, which isn't really scheduled until m14, but I think it's long overdue.  A little gun-jumping will be a good thing, I think.

Tomorrow I have to fill in for my boss at a management meeting, which will probably be highly unpleasant.  Or, at least, it will probably suck the life out of me.  Why are the programmers non-productive?  Because their time is wasted in meetings.  This is not the Tao of Programming.

## the cuckoo's nest

I finished <cite class='book'>One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest</cite> today just as I started my shift.  It was good, but it didn't really make a huge impression.  Or, at least, it didn't seem to make a statement.  Maybe I just don't know how to recognize it, or maybe its time has passed.  Anyway, it was a good read, but I think I'm ready for some more Palahniuk.  I'll pick up Choke later this week, probably.  We rented the movie of Cuckoo's Nest, and we'll probably watch it tomorrow.  I don't remember what I thought of it the first time I saw it, but it can't be all bad if it won all the top Oscars -- especially since this was before Gladiator and Gwyneth were winning them.

## sleep

I'm having trouble getting to sleep at my normal bedtime, probably because I've been taking naps after work, sometimes.  I should try and determine whether this is actually a good thing.  I suppose that I'll have some idea around 0700 tomorrow when I'm at or approaching work.  If I can't keep my eyes open, I'll need to stop napping.  

My normal remedy for sleeplessness is a little rum or bourbon, or sometimes vermouth.  Unfortunately, we are out of all three.  (Well, we have Bacardi, but that's a mixin' rum, IMHO.)  If I remember, I'll pick something up at the liquor store near work, tomorrow.

## darkness

I beat Eternal Darkness a second time, so I've now defeated Xel'lotath and Ulyoth.  I'm going to hold off on the third and final battle.  I don't want to burn myself out on ED, and I have other things to do, too, like work on the new vim.org, which I'm hoping to mostly complete (at least for R1) over my birthday week.

