---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2002-04-25"
date  : "2002-04-25T04:00:00Z"
---
<h4>work sucks</h4>I get up at 0600 so that I can wake up, shower, and get dressed before going to work.  Traditionally, waking up takes the longest.  I consider myself woken up when I can actually make out the squiggles on my monitor as I try to read the BBC news.

This morning, like a lot of recent mornings, I woke up too quickly. Unfortunately, I'm not usually woken up enough to read a clock, so I ended up at work almost a half hour early.  This ended up being balanced out by the fact that I was able to get almost absolutely nothing accomplished today.  Mostly, I wrote documentation and discussed how the system I was documenting needed to be thrown out the window.  I also wrote the most detailed bug report of my career.

The only mildly productive part of my day was helping our UK office to start using the ticket tracking system I wrote.  It's actually pretty cool to have people other than my direct co-workers using software that I wrote.  I almost feel like a real programmer.<h4>smartmedia stupidity</h4>My dad got a new digital camera a while ago and gave me his old Minolta Dimage V, a bizarre little camera made in 1997.  It takes amazing 640x480 pictures onto 5V SmartMedia cards.

The picture quality is mediocre, but that's fine---the camera was free, and I'm not really interested (yet) in taking high-quality shots.  The problem, though, is that no one seems to have a cheap, simple SmartMedia reader that will read old 5V cards <em>and</em> work under Linux with usb-storage.  I returned one to Staples today and borrowed my dad's.  Neither worked.  I don't want to spend $60 to make this thing useable.  Maybe I'll focus on getting my crappy QuickCam to work instead, or maybe I'll actually <em>buy</em> my hardware next time.  It's enough to make me want to own a Mac!

