---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2002-05-09"
date  : "2002-05-09T04:00:00Z"
---


## the in-law

Gloria's dad stopped by Bethlehem on Tuesday.  He was in the area with some co-workers, on a brief hiatus.  He treated us to dinner at the Brew Works, where we avoided the awful waiter we'd had the last time we went there.  I treated us to ice cream at the Hedgehog.  (We got the long end of the stick in this exchange.)

I've only got a few flavors left before I complete the "tour" at the Hedgehog. Once I've tried all twenty flavors on the roster, my name goes on a little plaque on the wall.  I'm not sure exactly how to feel about that:  while it is an accomplishment, it's an accomplishment made possible by the fact that I like ice cream.  In this case, though, I'm going to err on the side of eating more ice cream.  Once I finish off the tour, I can revert to getting shakes.  They make teaberry ice cream, which should make a killer shake.  I'm hoping, too, that they'll make spice (as in the cake) ice cream, which would be a similarly awesome shake.

## hardware

Inspired by talk on IRC, I've put together a <a href='/coredump/computers/machines'>quick list</a> of the hardware I own or owned.  I also finally shipped off a computer I'd had sitting in my office for weeks.  Apparently, all this time, I just had to give it to someone in shipping and forget about it.

I'm trying to come up with a use for mockturtle.  At the moment, it just sits there, doing nothing.  I've been pondering making it a semi-public box for some of my friends to use in learning Linux, but I'm not sure that will happen.

## work sucks

Today, I spent more time than I'd wanted to dealing with old issues that needed resolution, or new ones that I know will entail more red tape than they deserve.  I finished a basic (albiet post facto) spec for the helpdesk, though, and I think I'm finally going to be able to start building the unified frontend for the ticket-tracking, project-tracking, and training-tracking systems. That, at least, would be a nice accomplishment.

## tom waits

I picked up Tom Waits' new album, "Blood Money."  It's really good, but I'm still deciding whether it's great.  I think I'll end up filing it somewhere around Bone Machine and Swordfishtrombones:  "lesser masterpiece."

