---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2002-12-13"
date  : "2002-12-13T05:00:00Z"
---


## christmas approaches

Christmas time is here, by golly, but something like half of the presents we ordered haven't even shipped yet.  I've been bitching about Amazon for a long time now, but lately everyone I know has been joining in.  It's been ridiculous.  We've received items before shipping notifications, and many 1-3 day items have been taking at least seven days to ship.  It blows.  If I don't have everything by Christmas, it's going to be ugly.

Of course, I still think that's highly unlikely.

Unfortunately, what isn't so unlikely is that I might not have my Game Boy back by Christmas.  Portablemonopoly.NET's FAQ says that turnaround time is week from their receipt of the GBA.  Ha!

Despite a lot of previous research, I have only now begun to find information on other customers getting screwed.  Maybe I have, in fact, thrown away a hundred dollars.  Boy, that makes me mad!

## christmas party

Gloria's Christmas party was last night.  It was pretty darn good.  We went over to the Brew Works at about 1800, and there were drinks, nachoes, dinner, and a lot of conversation.  Everyone at Gloria's office seems friendly, and I talked with a couple of them for a while.  

I had the Belgian Dubbel, which is good and which I'd had before.  I also tried the trippel, which had something like 9.5% ABV and wasn't as tasty as the dubbel.  I would've tried the Christmas batch, too, but I was absolutely stuffed.  We had chocolate stout ice cream (made by Barbara at the Hedgehog), which I only ate through force of will---and because it was tasty.

Today we're going to run errands and do some final Christmas shopping, so I'm going to head off.

