---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2002-04-30"
date  : "2002-04-30T04:00:00Z"
---
<h4>programming</h4>I think I'm nearly done with my first round of heavy coding on Debug.  I don't know if I should feel accomplished---not only is it just a hack on someone else's code, but it looks (almost) exactly the same from the outside.  I'll set up a <a href='?page=D1m1'>history</a> page soon, so that it's evident that I've actually changed things.

Work programming has been slow.  I need to implement some timezone changes for the UK to use our ticket tracker, and I'm making a little progress, but mostly I'm stick working on our <acronym title='Enterprise Resource Planning'>ERP</acronym> system.  Our ERP system makes me cry.  I consider it "the price I pay for the rest of my job."  I like everything about my job except for that system, but it's slowly becoming more and more of what I do.  I keep silently hoping that it magically becomes Someone Else's Problem so that I can forget about it.

Hopefully, the group of programmers with whom I collaborate will soon formalize its document and project repository.  Maybe this will spurn me on to further work on my current projects.  It's been months since I worked on my library software, even.<h4>smallville</h4>So, you know, Smallville is a pretty good show.  I like it.  The recurring characters are all as deep as they need to be, and occasionally a little deeper.  (This is a Superman story, so I don't demand Batman-level depth of realism.)  The camera work is good, too, although I'm not sure how I feel about Clark having Airport Scanner Vision.

I'm sick, though, of these ridiculous one-shot villains.  Haven't the people of Smallville yet realized that their world is full of superpowered psycho teenagers?  And, really, must all super powers come from Krypto-- er, meteor rocks?  Superman is going to have a pretty boring career once he realizes that building a big dome over Smallville will rid the world of supervillains forever.

So, as you can gather, I thought tonight's episode was crap:  "I really want to be class president, so I'm going to rub out the competition with a swarm of superbees."  Huh?

