---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-01-22"
date  : "2003-01-22T05:00:00Z"
---


## work

Boring, annoying day at work.

Audit meeting, when I was working on other things.

Meeting to discuss general plans for a project that delved down into too many specifics.

Lots of static discharge from my carpet.

I did have a good discussion with The Other Boss about global development stuff.  Unfortunately, I just don't know if we'll get the global dev group working.  I think local politics may prevail.  I'm hoping I can at least get the three most current projects basically working at some point in the future. I need a lackey!

## play

Soul Calibur came, today.  I played a little of it, but not much.  I had to watch my taped Smallville (it was good).  SC was decent, but I need more time with it to be really sure.  The Dreamcast d-pad is so much better than GCN's!

I did more work on my IF projects, and I've gotten my IntroComp entry out of the deep recesses of the MBTA.  I need to figure out how to build up tension before the "end."

## programming

Fun news for me:  jGal was posted to Freshmeat.  I'm a little annoyed that one must argue for the inclusion of a free software project there, but whatever.  I got a huge amount of traffic today, but accidentally broke my logging around 1500.  Still, the logs that <em>do</em> exist are huge.  I'm interested to see them webalized!

I fixed a bug in jGal this morning, and I might try to do some touchup work to make it more pureperl this week.

