---
layout: post
title : journal for 2003-04-08
date  : 2003-04-08T04:00:00Z

---
<h4>weightlifting</h4>I did my first bout of lifting (weights) on Saturday.  The program I'd gotten from Getting Stronger seemed a little unchallenging, so I added a few sets.  On Sunday, I was wrecked and took the day off from the gym.  Yesterday, my wreckedness was worse.  We hit the gym, and I took it easy;  I did a half hour on the free-runner.  Today I'm feeling a little better, I think.  We're taking the day off for our anniversary dinner, so when we go to the gym tomorrow, I'm really hoping to feel better.<h4>games</h4>Hollywood Video had put up a sign advertising "Game Crazy," which I thought meant they'd just be getting a better selection of rental games.  In fact, it's a whole sub-store.  They had a decent selection of games for the three major consoles, <em>and</em> Dreamcast, SNES, and even some Genesis and NES carts. It seems pretty cool.  Meanwhile, Hollywood's rental collection seemed improved, but still not great.

While there, I saw the box for Steel Battalion.  Man, that's a big box!

Gloria and I briefly talked about the coolness of obtaining a SNES/NES/Genesis. I still think I'll go for the XBX first.  Steel Battalion calls my name.  Also, I can use the XBX as a free weight when I can't get to the gym.<h4>introcomp</h4>I placed third in Introcomp '03, which was roughly what I expected.  I'm pleased, I guess.  I wish we'd had more entrants.  It seems that a lot of the competitions are getting less entries.  I must endeavor to enter them, to keep the numbers up---and to get better at this.

