---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-01-24"
date  : "2003-01-24T05:00:00Z"
---
<h4>waiting for bda and phun</h4>Bryan and John C are supposed to be by this weekend, and I'm pretty much hanging around and waiting for them to show up.  They made a pretty nice wrong turn early in their trip, so I'm not exactly sure when they're due, but it's gotta be nowish.  The apartment's pretty clean (nearly all Gloria's doing), and the longer it takes them to get here, the more of my things I quietly put into place.  I should do something productive, instead---like write this, I guess.<h4>work</h4>Work was work; nothing interesting.  Our departing director of HR stopped by to say farewell, which was pleasant of her.  I told her that, should her new place need a staff theologan, she should drop me a line.  I'm not expecting much.

I got some coding and some planning done, but nothing really interesting.  I think Trevor may have finally gotten some hazy project specs committed to paper, but I'm waiting until he gets everyone to sign off on them before I throw confetti.

The amount of static discharge in my office these last few weeks is crazy. Every time I stand up I have to clench my teeth, make a fist, and punch my desk.  This keeps the visible, audible arc of discharge from making me yell.  I think it has something to do with the fact that I put my feet up on my chair, so I'm not grounded.  Still, where's it all coming from?<h4>programming</h4>Very little work on my IF stuff today.  I got some stuff implemented in jGal, some of which was pretty important and some of which wasn't.  I need to do a code cleanup again, as I move toward R1.  It seems to be getting pretty good, though.

I was briefly excited to find a hit for "created with jGal" on Google, but it turned out to be something else.  Still, FM shows a decent number of pageviews. I think that, in a few days (weeks?) I'll be over the novelty of having total strangers look at and/or try my program.  For now, though, it's pretty kooky.

Bryan suggested that the thrill would wear off the first time I get some idiot asking for a stupid feature.  I think it will be more like the <em>second</em> time that happens.<h4>resume</h4>While putting things away, I found my nice leather BU notebook.  Flipping through it, I found a half dozen old resumes from my last job hunt.  I hope that's not an omen.

I updated my resume, but it's still pretty uninteresting.  I think I need to change the way I'm presenting things on it.  Still, I'm hoping it doesn't need to see the light of day any time soon.  I think, in fact, that nearly any change to our current staffing at work will be extremely annoying.  Again, I say: if something's going to happen at work, let it happen.  I guess layoffs are usually something that looms, and rarely something that just happens.

Speaking of looming layoffs, the awesome BBC comedy The Office is now on BBC America.  Gloria pointed it out to me in the newspaper, and It Was Good.  I'll have to try to get her watching it.  I've seen the whole first season (or, as they say, series), so I'm really looking forward to the second.  I hope that isn't too far off.

