---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-05-27"
date  : "2003-05-27T04:00:00Z"
---


## play qua play

I picked up Super Mario Advance 2 and Super Mario Advance 3 this weekend. They're basically Super Mario World and Yoshi's Island for the GBA.  So far, I much prefer Yoshi's Island.  I'd played SMW before, of course, but it's somehow strangely annoying.  I always wish that it was SMB3, I think.  It's neat to have Yoshi, but I've got a whole lot of him on another cartridge.  I want my tanooki suit.

I looked at some other games I want, but I think $60 was more than enough to spend on nonsense this pay cycle.  I think these should actually last me for a good while.  Then, more Wario and Kirby.

## playing for work

I did some beta-testing for an IF game on the public beta test site.  The author got really upset for hard-to-discern reasons and complained to the newsgroups.  On the newsgroups, he was told that he was wrong.  This made him angrier.  Pretty soon, there were over a hundred messages on the topic.  I think it was all pretty insane.  In the end, I don't know why the guy didn't talk to me about his concerns so that we could work things out.  I guess it's better to get flak early on than after committing hours and hours.

Otherwise, beta-testing goes well.  I've seen some interesting games, and I feel like I'm being relatively useful, which is pleasant.  It will be nice to see the games get judged and think, "Hey!  I worked on that."

## working on play

I haven't done much work lately on my games.  I need to get cracking.  I think I can get Coronation Day implemented for SwashComp, but not if I just keep staring at it.  Of course, that means I need to decide how to handle the introduction.  Once I'm on the surface, I feel relatively secure.

As far as the Young Girl's Primer, I'm clueless.

## working at work

I'm back at work today, and my motivation is gone again.  I need to try to work at home more regularly, so I can keep getting things done.  When will we hire another developer, so we can work in tandem?  This place is depressing. 

