---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-06-22"
date  : "2003-06-22T04:00:00Z"
---
<h4>harry potter</h4>I preorder Harry Potter 5 forever ago.  More specifically, I ordered it in January.  I'd expected it to arrive Monday, but a few weeks ago, BN.com told me they were giving me a free upgrade to overnight shipping.  Saturday, we stopped by work, but I'd forgotten my passcard.  I found some people who could let me in, retrieved my copy, and started in.

I just finished it a few minutes ago.  It was good.  Really, it didn't disappoint me at all.  Seriously, though, if the next book isn't out next year, I'm going to start getting pissed.

I don't have anything really clever to say about it.  It was significantly darker than the previous book, as one might well expect given Goblet of Fire's ending.  It was strange that its dust jacket was so blue.  I thought a few parts were unexciting, but not many and not for long.  I enjoyed it.<h4>work</h4>Work has been driving me nuts for various reasons lately, but I am going to try, this week, to get everything sorted out.  There is very little more fun that coming home from work in a mild rage.<h4>play</h4>I picked up MechAssault for $20, brand new.  Nice!  I also got Blinx, as it was only $15.  The review on IGN is a really mixed bag.  On one hand, they talk about how the game is so innovative and revolutionary.  On the other hand, they complain about really basic problems like a crappy camera and a lack of plot or cut-scenes.  So far, I can agree about the problems.  I haven't played enough to decide about the innovation.  The potential is there, anyway.<h4>shopping</h4>We went to the mall this weekend and stocked up on some new wardrobe items.  We both have old clothes that need replacing, and we've both shrunk in size significantly over the past few months.  Neither Gloria nor I like shopping much, so it was a pain.  Still, now it's done for a good long while.

I've been wearing my new shorts (four inches smaller in the waist, w00t!), and they're still really comfortable.  I'll probably wear one of my pseudo-polo shirts tomorrow.<h4>etc</h4>So, at the gym tonight, some newscaster began his little op-ed segment by saying, "A great thinker once said, 'Evil triumphs when good men do nothing.'" This pissed me off.  If the thinker was so great, why not give him credit by calling him by name.  His name was Edmund Burke.

Are people going to immediately lose interest because you say his name?  The guy could even say, "The great thinker Edmund Burke..."  I don't know if they didn't want to do the research or what.  Man, wtf?

Also, I have a flat in my bike, and I just didn't get around to repairing it yesterday.  I guess that's not such a big deal.

