---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-06-08"
date  : "2003-06-08T04:00:00Z"
---
<h4>words of wisdom</h4>There will be an answer.  Let it be.<h4>play</h4>Oh, I am <em>weak</em>!

I talked myself into buying Wario Ware, today.  We got lunch at Ray's, and it was good.  Ray is a cool guy.

After lunch we stopped by Game Crazy.  The clerk had never even <em>heard</em> of Wario Ware, which is just insane.  Actually, it's sad.  Why do non-gamers get jobs selling games?  I can't imagine there aren't enough teenage game geeks who need jobs.

Anyway, we needed to hit the mall area, so I stopped into EBX and picked up Wario Ware.  While there, I also found Xenogears.  It was expensive, as it's rare, but I bought it because, well, it's hard to find.  I have <em>no</em> idea when I'll get to it.

I played Wario Ware immediately, though.  I played it a little when we got home, then a little more while Gloria took a nap, then a little more after the gym, and finally I beat it.  Normally, beating a game with about two hours of gameplay would annoy me.  In this case, it's just fine.  The point isn't progressing through the game and beating everything, it's playing the game over and over and over and over.  It's insane and cool.  I'll write more on <a href='http://gamesite.collapsar.net/'>$gs</a>.<h4>int-fiction</h4>I'm trying to do more work on Coronation Day.  I made some progress today, but I think I'll try to really start cranking through it tomorrow.  I'd really like to finish the shipboard stuff this week so I can get to the "real" game.

