---
layout: post
title : journal for 2003-01-31
date  : 2003-01-31T05:00:00Z

---
<h4>knave</h4>About three months ago, I swapped the hdd from knaveofhearts into a newer model Latitude that had become available.  It had a nipplemouse, a Pentium III, a Rage Mobility, and a few other enhancements.  It had been Trevor's, and he said it was really unstable.  He'd stopped using it when he got a new Evo N800, and the Latitude's mobo had been replaced just before he stopped;  in other words, its stability might've been fixed.

I determined that it was, after a while of use.  

Today, though, the keyboard was acting weird again, and doing things that didn't make sense.  Letters would duplicate when it seemed very unlikely that I could've hit the keys, and shift just didn't want to engage.  Finally, I got pissed and hammered on shift for a half second or so.  All hell broke loose! The audio went into Obnoxious Noise mode, and I ripped off my headphone.  My office has been a den of static discharge lately, and I was afraid it was going to ground into my brain.  The screen went black, the noise got worse, and I was sure it was going to spontaneously combust, when it just hard reset. 

A BIOS error came up: Amount of system memory had changed.  When I looked into it, I was now told that there were 8 MB available.  Right...

In the end, I switched back to the previous system.  It's missing a keycap, but I rearranged the keyboard so that the Windows key is missing.  That's fine with me.  It's only little slower, and a P2/400 is plenty fast for running Vim and ssh.  The keyboard's feel is much better, too.  I did nearly all of my work, today, on the notebook, wirelessly.  I ordered a draft-802.11g access point, too.  

Actually, I ordered two.  First I ordered the D-Link DWL-2000AP.  Only <em>after</em> ordering was I told that it was on backorder for several weeks. To cancel my order, I had to phone the vendor.  The stupid thing is that I ordered it through D-Link.  I expected better from them, for some reason. Since that didn't work out, I ordered the Linksys WAP54G, which has gotten mixed reviews.  I figure that it should be sufficient for now, and good once there are more firmware patches.

