---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-11-25"
date  : "2003-11-25T05:00:00Z"
---


## a delicate balance

I've made this vacation a delicate balance between doing nothing and being productive.  Now, that's not to say that it's been half and half.  It's been much more lopsided, favoring loafing.  Even so, I'm happy about those things I did get done.

I wrote a good number of entries for $gamesite, which was becoming sadly ignored.  One of them is the start of a new series of entries, which I will hopefully manage to continue writing.  I was reading an article on IGN recently, and it was "part two of a new weekly column."  I'm pretty sure there weren't many more installments of that column, which must be sad, especially for people who had to do things like make a header graphic and stuff.

I also finally got around to making the RSS feed work in Life::Story again. It's sloppy, and needs to be rewritten more like the rest of Life::Story, but hey, it works.  I know nobody really uses the feed, but at least now they can if they want to for... any reason.

I made plans to make plans to compile a giant family address book, which I think I can be responsible for doing, once I get things imported.  I think Address Book (which needs a new name) will be good for this, especially if I can confirm that every other program that matters can import vCard.

I played through a good chunk of a few games, and in fact entirely through Prince of Persia.

I reorganized all the books on our bookshelves.  I finally gave up on using LC numbers, and now things are fairly easy to find.  It was a good mistake to admit making; now it will be easy (or at least easier) to get my book database working.  I'm thinking I should try to make it cover music and games, too. Ugh.  I need a burst of inspiration!

## today's highlights

I watched It's Alive today;  it was the third of the bad movies I rented this weekend, but it turned out to be the best.  In fact, I might go so far as to say that it was mediocre, rather than bad.  The ending, while predictable, was satisfying.  Sometimes I wish that horror movies with vaguely apocalyptic endings would have sequels set years later.  It's (Still) Alive, for example, could show us a grim future America where society is ravaged by evil infants. How cool would that be?  Pretty cool.

I went down to 7-11 for lunch and grabbed some hot dogs.  I don't know why, but I had the urge, and they were just fine.  I think 7-11's hot dogs would end up being far more enjoyable if they could just keep their buns fresher.  Soggy or (in this case) crusty buns are no fun.  I had thought about walking down to Pott's, but I wasn't interested in spending that much time on a hot dog run.

Tonight, I do some more relaxing and a bit of shopping for Thanksgiving things with Gloria.  Tomorrow, preparation for Thanksgiving begins in earnest, and then Turkey Day will be upon us!  I am excited to eat the bird!

