---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-05-14"
date  : "2003-05-14T04:00:00Z"
---

## play

I've been slacking off on my video game playing.  Shame on me.  I picked up Xenosaga and made a little progress, and I went to town in AX recently.  Other than that, I haven't done much.

Well, except for Def Jam Vendetta.  I beat that (on easy) last night.  It was good.  I got me a stable of ho'z and a really bad-ass fighter.  Now I need to make my way through playing a different character.  I'm not sure if I'll go with Proof, who seems somewhat cool, or Tank, who's just huge.

## work

Work is work.  I continue in my quest to get another developer.  I hope it's over soon.  It's gotten to the point where I'm annoyed at seeing it strung out so long.  If we're not going to get someone, let's just hear it and be done with it.  Then again, I guess it's worth waiting another week for a "yes." Still, <em>arrrgh</em>!

There was a minor (but important (but minor)) breakthrough in planning the next milestone in MASH.  I should get that half-implemented today.  I'd like to get a suitable-for-public-release tarball together, but I just don't have the time or drive to do so.  Also, if I did, I should spend that doing things like work on my IF projects.

## int-fiction

Well, I've gotten a little work done, recently.  Most of it, though, centers around putting my hand-written notes, scattered throughout my possessions, into CVS.  I'd like to finish Primer, but I'm so stuck.

Also, I should try to get more of Coronation Day done.  I'd like to get an entry into SwashComp, and I think this game could be OK.

Recently on rec.arts.int-fiction, this guy who goes by "Radical Al" posted a poorly-conceived question.  This is a common occurance; he's asked the same thing a dozen times, but doesn't seem to learn from the answers.  Also, his ability (or maybe his willingness) to read and understand the documentation is lackluster, at best.

I replied with an answer and the suggestion that he read the documentation until he understood it.  He got huffy, and I gave him a piece of my mind.  To make a long story short, he made some sort of crack about shooting me, and then said that this was the price I paid for criticizing people.

You can find the whole nonsensical affair on Googlegroups, under TestScope.

Anyway, at least it's led me to want to answer more good questions, so that I seem less vindictive when singling out the stupid ones.  Of course, I'll never be the Charles Cazabon of raif, but that's acceptable.

