---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-07-10"
date  : "2003-07-10T04:00:00Z"
---


## oscon: day the fourth

There were keynotes today on the open source business model and open source software on the desktop.  I didn't go to either, although I'm told the latter, given by Mitch Somethingorofther, formerly of Lotus and now of OSDL (the Chandler people) was quite good.  Instead, I talked with Piers about his cunning PLOT to create Parrot Lisp On Thursday (and about other things).  I saw a few other interesting people, including a woman from Apple who made portentous noises about the future of iSight.  I was pretty stoked to hear that iSight will work with the next version of iMovie.  I don't think I have much need to play with making video with my PowerBook, but it sounds cool.

There was a talk by Allison on the Perl6 design philosophy, which was pretty good, and a talk about CGI (web, not graphics), which was pretty uninteresting. There was also a talk on "Perl certification"---as in, havings one's ability to code Perl certified.  That was pretty interesting, too.  Although I'll admit that I'm probably among those who wouldn't want to <em>get</em> a cert, it would be useful to see as a basic "weeding mechanism" for incoming resumes. Then again, that would only be useful if I was able to solicit resumes!

Microsoft provided lunch again.  It was good, although not great.  It had a little piece of salt-water taffy in it, which was somewhat sinister.  "This bagged lunch contains a non-descript unidentified pink substance in a plain wax-paper wrapper, courtesy of Microsoft.  Enjoy."  Yeah... so, I threw it out.

Someone---Stonehenge, I think---had little finger foods down on the exhibition floor, and I had a bit of this and that along with a decent bottle of beer and another Haagen-Daas bar.  These, I think, were left over from tea time; RealNetworks provided them.  Tea and a Haagen-Daas ice cream bar go together well.

I did a bunch of poking around with Kwiki before bed, which was pretty fun.  I see potential.  I've begun making some customizations that may allow me to create my long-thought-about "coredump" project for organizing non-chronological stories.  The problem with using coff as the format is that it prevents (mostly) linking to documents that don't exist but might later.  I mean, I can still create links, but it's more of a pain to enter a link tag that's about as long as the link text than to just enter some "CamelCase" words.

I did some preliminary packing, too, try try and minimize the amount of packing I'd need to do Friday night.

