---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-11-30"
date  : "2003-11-30T05:00:00Z"
---


## vacation ends

Today is my last day of loafing around before I have to go to work and start loafing at my desk again.  This was almost certainly the vacation on which I did the most relaxing, so I'm hoping that I'll arrive back at the office just raring to get work done.  I imagine I'll also feel like I should've gotten a lot of work done while on vacation, but... I was on vacation!  I'm going to try to enjoy the fact that I did nothing.

I did do one or two things today.  Well, I guess if I want to limit that to productive things, I did one thing.  I've been hoping to play more games with my icehouse pieces, mostly because it seems like something cerebral but relaxing to do.  I was looking at rules for Pikemen, a chess-like game, and I thought it would be fun to write a Perl module to generate diagrams of Icehouse pieces of chess boards.  That made me remember my old intention to update my go module to work with Simon Cozens' modules.  I started to work on that, which led me to think his module needed a better hoshi point-finding method, which I wrote.  He's told me that I can go ahead and take over the module, and I will. It may be my first module on the CPAN, unless I get a few more subclasses of Mario ready.

As for unproductive things, I played a lot of StarCraft, but I think I'll be putting it away for a while now that vacation is over.  Gloria and I played Mario Party, which was both fun and frustrating.  I'll write more about it for $gamesite, but the key problem is that I don't want CPU players.  They annoy me.

I ate the last of the leftover turkey, which was a disgusting but excellent experience.  I was covered to the wrist in grease, and basically found myself holding the carcass against my face while ripping off little pieces of meat with my teeth.  It was fine.  I decided to forgo dinner and have a TastyKake pumpkin pie instead.

Gloria is still feeling sick, and I'm unable to be helpful.  This is, I think, largely because I don't know how to cure what ails her.  (Maybe I should go suggest bourbon?)  She's been taking it easy, too, which is good.  We watched the Muppet Christmas Carol.  I like that movie.

I can't think of anything else interesting that happened, and even the above wasn't too interesting to start with.  I've been trying to figure out a way to meet local people who I'll find interesting and worth hanging out or playing games with.  It seems like an NP problem.

