---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-03-30"
date  : "2003-03-30T05:00:00Z"
---


## really quick update

It's pretty late, and even though I'm not tired, I'm going to hit the sack soon.  I need to get up in about seven hours, and I need my beauty sleep.

I'm feeling a little crappy.  I went to the gym tonight and did some serious ellipticizing (1000 Calories, same as Friday), and I feel energentic and good, but the crappiness remains where it was: in my throat.  I feel a sore throat coming on, and I hope I can avoid it.  The weather really stank this weekend. Today we had cold wind, rain, and even some snow.  I was under dressed when we went to do the laundry, largely because it wasn't as cold in the early morning as it became later.  I don't think that was the source of my throat ickiness, but I'm sure it didn't help.

I read The Drawing of the Three Today.  I bought the second, third, and fourth books in the series yesterday.  I'd read the first, on bda's suggestion, and it was Good.  The second was good, too.  I think I might be able to get through the third, but then I'll need a break.

Gloria made awesome nachoes on Friday and awesome mushroom sammiches yesterday, for the record.

I beat Zelda tonight, although I know there are copious side quests I didn't complete.  I'll probably go back and do them on my initial save game.  I have a "second play-through" save open, too, but that seems like a big hassle.  It should be neat for a lark, anyway.

OK, that's it.  Sleep now.

