---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2003-01-21"
date  : "2003-01-21T05:00:00Z"
---
<h4>richard iii</h4>John came by and we all watched Richard III.  What a fine movie!

<blockquote class='chat'>
<pre><code>	<p><span class='u0'>elizabeth</span>: Shall I be tempted of the devil thus?</p>
	<p><span class='u1'>glouster</span>: Ay, if the devil tempt thee to do good.</p>
</code></pre>

</blockquote>

Gloria retired shortly after the movie, and John and I played some Typing of the Dead and shot the breeze.  Good game for multiplayer.  It needs a better keyboard, though.<h4>int-fiction</h4>I've officially "filed my intent" to participate in IntroComp, XYZZYNews' competition to write the beginning to an IF game.  I've got the framework built, but I need to get to a certain point in the set-up before I can even consider it kinda ready.

It's kind of a rip-off of my first abortive attempt at nanowrimo, but I think it has more potential, since I can goof around a little more.<h4>work</h4>Work is building up strangely, lately.  More large-scale systems are being proposed and sketched, but I feel like getting them implemented is going to be a very daunting task for just me.  I know I can conscript some of the other employees to certain extents, but very few of them have any proficiency in the languages that will be used to construct our new systems.

I need to convince the current engineering staff that Perl is The Right Thing for them to use for their practical extraction and reporting.  I mean, look at the bloody backronym!

