---
layout: post
title : "journal for 2004-02-24"
date  : "2004-02-24T05:00:00Z"
---


## snow day!

The other day, at the Hedgehog, I saw that we'd had just twenty-three days of snow this winter, just as the Farmer's Almanac said we would.  I thought we were done!  They were calling for snow today, and I poo-pooed it.  This morning, though, as I got to work, there were flurries.  It kept snowing all day, and by the time I headed home there was about a quarter inch.  Of course, that quarter inch was only on surfaces that saw absolutely no traffic, so it wasn't a big deal.

The snow was a little annoying, though, because I didn't want to get my jacket wet.  I shoved it into my Timbuk2; it wasn't too cold, so this wasn't a major problem.  I'm ashamed to admit that the more major problem was that the snow hampered my ability to play Metroid while I walked.  I played anyway.  I just wiped it off now and then and pocketed it once or twice.  Once home, I was able to defeat Kraid.  Yeah, that's how much of a badass I am.

After work, John R. came by and hung out for a while.  I pointed at my Mac and said "buy one."  After an hour of that, I forced him to play some Steel Battalion.  Making him play it made me want to play it again sometime.  I should really try to get through the whole game before the sequel is out and/or popular.

When John left, Gloria and I ate some girl scout cookies and watched Castle of Cagliostro and Lost in Translation.  (Lost in Translation is still playing, now.  It's quite good, so far.)

I also got a class action suit settlement!  Ages ago I signed up for that suit against the music industry for price fixing CDs.  I guess it got settled, and my share was $13.86.  CD prices are still like $15 or $20 for new CDs, though, so what the heck?

That's it for today.  Back to the movie.

