---
layout: post
title : journal for 2004-02-18
date  : 2004-02-18T05:00:00Z

---
<h4>bryar</h4>I continue to play around with Bryar, but I haven't finished much of interest. I wrote a few unexciting patches, mostly in furtherance of larger snippets.  I wrote a YAML config class, but I'm somewhat torn on accessors.  I guess I'll figure that out as need demands.  I'm trying to do my best not to design until I need to, and to refactor mercilessly.  Today's problems today.  JFDI.  YAGNI. Be the ball.

I am a buzzword ninja.

I was hoping to start work on a ghetto datasource multiplexer tonight, but I think I'll wait until lathos finishes a bit of refactoring of his own.  It's kind of nice to have a semi-legitimate excuse to put off work.<h4>work</h4>Yeah, so, work is totally split between Woo! and Ugh! lately.

Woo!  I have lots of little problems to solve, providing a lot of immediate benefit to the issues that have clear impact on our quality of product and our customer complaints.  We have so much low-hanging fruit at IQE that it's silly to not make pie.

Ugh!  Why do we keep planning on souffle?  I am not longer in control of my professional destiny, which is unpleasant.  Worse, I am not in control of my ability to contribute, which is frustrating.  Sometimes, I wish I had it in my to just coast.  Really.<h4>software surveys</h4>Some time ago, someone on IRC said "OmniOutliner is too much for me!  I need something lighter."  So, I said "Just use Vim!"  He said, "That's not enough." So I said, "Look at The Vim Outliner."

This, though I'd never used either beyond a brief putzing around.  So, when someone else asked me about TVO when I said it was an alternative to OmniOutliner, I was totally unarmed to supply a comparison.  So now I'm gathering info for one.  OmniOutliner is way cool, especially because of its Keynote export and its plugins.  I still think it may be too much for me, but.. wow!

I also really need to finish the one-third-finished Vim indenting tutorial.

