---
layout: post
title : "the perl foundation"
date  : "2006-03-29T03:32:11Z"
tags  : ["perl"]
---
This morning, Adam wrote his [faux
pitch](http://use.perl.org/~Alias/journal/29129) to become TPF President.
There were a decent number of replies, many of which were on the order of, "We
actually don't need to raise more money" or "people don't actually want Perl
certification."  The problem is that his "platform" outshone what I think is a
real issue: TPF still seems like a black box.

Well, Ovid is right: the organization has become more accountable, since Bill
took over.  The blog is great; for some time I thought it was abandoned, but it
turned out that the feed URL had changed and I had missed out on lots of news.

I'm really glad that Ovid is doing such a boss job with the grants committee.
The biggest concern about TPF -- at least for me and the people I heard from --
used to be that nobody knew what the hell happened with grants.  Money would
get assigned, and we'd find out, and then it was like a big black hole.  Maybe
we'd see something delivered, or maybe the grant would become something not
brought up in polite conversation.  Now we're seeing reports about how projects
are going.  They're such a nice bit of feedback that I *almost* want to see a
grant project fail so I can see whether we also get feedback on that.
*Almost*.

Also on the blog, Jim Brandt (who, by the way, totally rules) has made some
posts about upcoming conferences (and conferences in general).  Andy Lester has
kept us up to date on his response to some loose (but sometimes accurate) talk
about Perl security problems.  Ask Bjoern Hansen posted a request for help in
maintaining the various Perl mailing lists.

Interestingly, Ask's post is the only one that actually asks for help.  I'm a
bit tickled by his lead-in: "If you have been wondering how you can help out,
here is one way."  `brian d foy` said: "People don't not participate because
they don't have a way to give money."

Ok, I'm quoting him a bit out of context, but the quote leads to (in my
opinion) one of the remaining "black box" issues with TPF.  Under "Get
Involved" on perlfoundation.org, there are three links:  Want to Help?, Make a
Donation, and Fund Drive Status.  Well, the second two are clear: they're links
on how to give TPF money.  What's the first one?  To me, it reads like "either
go help somebody else who can use you, or give us money."

That is: join a Perl Mongers group, go to YAPC, write some Perl code, populate
a Perl-related website, or send TPF money.  This reads, to me, like, "You can
help TPF by giving money, or you can help Perl in other ways."  Why can't the
average Joe help TPF in other ways than with money?  With, say, volunteer
labor.

There might be very good reasons!  TPF might not actually be responsible for
anything that can use extra random lackeys.  What exactly does TPF do?  Well,
the home page says they coordinate a number of groups and hold the copyright on
Perl 6 and Parrot.  They also do stuff to promote Perl.  What kind of stuff?
I'm not sure, but because Ovid and Jim totally rule, I know that it includes
grants and conferences.  Ask's post implies that TPF is in some way related to
the operation of perl.org.

I think that TPF is getting a lot better at being an open organization, and
that's important.  Geeks like us are likely to be suspcious of any group that
won't tell us what it does and resentful of any group that wants our money for
unclear purposes.

Hopefully future revisions of TPF's public web page can more explicitly define
its duties.  It'd also be nice to see some more general "Perl Foundation news"
posts, telling us how it's doing with its internal goals -- like the post Bill
first made.  Even seeing a post like that once a quarter would be great.  If we
know just what TPF really does, and we know how each of its subtasks (grants,
conferences, etc.) is going, and we know how TPF itself is going, I think we
know everything we need to know.

Without being armed with that information, I can't hope to guess what kind of
changes TPF might need -- quite likely, I'd find it wouldn't need any.

