---
layout: post
title : sergei prokofiev, esq.
date  : 2006-07-27T13:23:58Z
tags  : ["dreams"]
---
I dreamt that Dominus, someone else (though I can't recall who), and I were
walking around Philadelphia.  The third person had once lived there and Dominus
was taking her around to see what had changed.  At some point, we went to a
large hotel-like building with two E's on its gates.  I poked around and
determined that it was now a dormitory for a very hoity-toity university.  I
had gone on ahead, and when the other two caught up with me, they were sad to
see that this building had been so repurposed.   They suggested we sneak in,
and despite my protests we did so.  As we poked around its library, a few
students showed up, and we seemed sure to be thrown out or arrested or
something.

Instead, one of them said, "Hey!  You migrants!  Come over here and help us."
They had mistaken us for foreign laborers, for no clear reason.  We sat around
and listened to their rehersal for moot court; I have no idea why they wanted
us to do this.  Now and then, we would ask questions in silly accents, and
this really irritated them.

One exchange went like this:

    rjbs: Wait, so clearly the solicitor on the right is Darrow.  Who is the
          other man?
    jerk: Well, only the most important person in the trial!
    rjbs: Ah, I see, clearly.  Does he have a name, or does the magnitude of
          his fame render such a thing unneeded?
    jerk: (with exasperated sigh) He is Sergei?
    rjbs: Sergei?
    mjd : The great Sergei Sergeyevich Prokofiev!
    rjbs: Really?  A lawyer, too?
    
At this, the students were all disgusted at our ignorance and we were nearly
unable to suppress laughter.  In retrospect, it wasn't very funny.

Later on, in another dream, I was going to a local movie theater that only
existed in my dream.  They were an art house.  I think the first movie I went
to see was in Czech, with German subtitles.  I may have been there with Walt.
I was disappointed to learn that the film had also been dubbed.  I enjoyed the
experience, though, and began to go back regularly, becoming part of the
theater association and, if I recall correctly, taking part in some of their
stage productions.  Later, I got the honor of selecting and presenting one of
their feature films.  I chose a little known movie called, "My Plumber, Mario."

