---
layout: post
title : "more thoughts on mobile phones"
date  : "2007-10-06T01:21:19Z"
tags  : ["phone"]
---
So, it's funny that I ended up with a phone that can't iSync, because this
morning as I was walking to work, I was thinking about what I want in a cell
phone.  I wasn't sure about everything I want, but I knew that the first
thing on the list was iSync.  "If it can't use iSync," I thought, "it's out of
the running."

Obviously, there are things more important than that: it must, for example, be
able to make and receive phone calls, and must work with my current provider.
I think those are the only things that actually rule a phone entirely out of
the running.

Just to help organize my own thoughts, here are the things I want out of a
phone, in order.

## The Features I Want

### Synchronized Contact Phone Numbers and Email

Really, I don't demand iSync, I realized today.  I need to be able to easily
put all my contacts from Address Book into my phone.  I don't need two-way
sync.  I don't need street addresses or photos.  Those things are all nice, but
I can live without them.  I have 172 contacts in my "Phoneworthy" group, and
there's no way on Earth that I'm going to key them all in on my phone.

The downside (I speculate) of the way I'm forced to sync on this phone is that
I must delete before I update.  That means, presumably, that will lose the
speed dial information I've set up, not to mention custom ring tones.  Adding a
vCard for a current contact results in a duplicate, not an update.

Basically, iSync is really, really great, but vCard dumps will do in a pinch.

### Programmable Shortcuts

I want to be able to set up shortcuts on the soft keys for all the things I run
a lot.  That's something like: contact list, recent calls, alarms, and
calendar.  Moreover, I want to be able to disassociate annoying things from
softkeys.  For example, pushing the select button on my phone's idle screen
brings up the phone's obnoxious web browser.  I can't find a way to change that
keybinding.  Every time I accidentally press the middle part of the directional
shortkeys, which I can change, I launch the browser and have to wait to be able
to quit it.

I should be able to see what's where.  On the RAZR, I could say, "display all
the shortcuts on the idle screen."  On the Samsung, I can't, I just have to
remember, or look it up in settings.  (Well, I can also hit the button and see
what happens, I guess.)

Anything that shows up in a menu should be assignable to a shortcut key.  Since
I won't be using this phone's calendar, I thought I'd put the countdown timer
on my shortcuts.  I can't.  Why not?  I can't tell.

### Synchronized Calendar

It's great to be able to flip open my phone and see what I've got on my
calendar.  I'm not constantly making plans to do things, but it's nice to be
able to see when my next game is, or to note that I can't go in next Wednesday
because MJ is going to the doctor.

### Good Contact List

Maybe every phone is now like this, but it's important to me that my contacts
be listed as people who may have multiple phone numbers or email addresses.  I
really don't like two "Signes, Ricardo" entries, one for work and one for home.
I haven't seen a phone that couldn't work this way in a while, but I bet
they're still out there.

### Good Alarms and Timers

I am totally unreliable at home.  I say I'll get up and do something early,
then I don't.  I put water on for tea and let it boil away.  I just forget
about the small stuff.  (I take "don't sweat it" too far, I guess.)

I really, really got a lot of use out of my RAZR's alarms.  I made a few for
the various times in the morning that I'd have to get up, and sometimes I'd
make one for whatever time I had to do something, like "19:27 - steep tea."

Having alarms *and* timers is great.  It means I can say "tell me when it's
bene five minutes" when I'm heating the oven, or "wake me up at 5:30" when I'm
taking the early bus.  Unlike the RAZR, my Samsung has timers.  Unfortunately,
I have to dig through menus to get to them.  Its alarms are worse, too.  I can
only have three, and they're named "Wake-up Call" and "Alarm1" and "Alarm2."  I
can't rename them, which means I can't tell, by looking at them, what they're
for.

Who designed this, anyway?

### Charging via USB

Bluetooth is great, but I don't need it.  I don't use a headset very often.  I
don't have a big preference between USB and Bluetooth for synchronization, but
there's one reason that USB is useful: charging.  If I forgot my phone's
charger, I could always plug it into my laptop overnight using the USB cable I
carry for my camera.

### Not a Ridiculous Shape or Size

I can't use a phone that's so small that it only reaches from my ear to my
cheek.  I can't us a phone that's thicker than my wallet.  I've used a lot of
different form factors, now, and I think that flips and sliders are what I
like.  Both of these also have the benefit of making it harder for me to
accidentally make calls while they're in my pocket.  The RAZR v3 was a pretty
good size, and so far I also like the SGH-D807.

### Third-Party Applications

This is pretty low on my list, but it means a few things.  The most important
one (which is saying something) is free games.  It also means Opera, if I have
internet access on my phone.  It means ssh, maybe, and possibly a few other
little things like Google Local.

## The Features I Don't Care About

### Camera

I have a nice little digital snapshot camera.  I've taken a few photos with my
phone, and it was convenient, but it's not worth considering when making a
purchase.

### Music

This includes MP3 players, ring tones, and radio tuners.  I want my phone's
ring to sound like a phone, not like music.  I don't listen to the radio.  The
only way I will use my phone to replace my iPod is if it does everything that
my iPod does, which means two-way syncing with iTunes.

### Email and MMS

I suppose it's possible that someday I will see an email client on a phone that
doesn't totally disgust me, but I am dubious.  If I can send a brief text
message to an email address as I would to an SMS number, that's great.  If not,
whatever.  As for MMS, I have never yet been able to send a multimedia message
from my phone to anyone or anything else reliably.  My RAZR sent messages to
my Flickr account reliably, I guess.  I haven't been able to pull that off with
the new phone yet.

I'd rather have Shozu work.

## Conclusions?

Well, the first one is obvious:  the SGH-D807 was a lousy choice, mostly
because of the lack of iSync.  Some of its other shortcomings are things that I
wouldn't have been able to see looking at most reviews, but I would've noticed
using it in the store.  The problem was, of course, that I didn't try using it
in the store.  Even if I had, most stores don't have their phones turned on to
play with -- but the T-Mobile store I went to today did, which is a good sign.
Now that I've made myself a list, I'll know what to look for, specifically, in
my next phone.

I think, all told, my next phone will probably be an iPhone or Blackberry.
Then again, maybe I need to dig into the secret world of Linux-powered phones.
iPhone won't be customizable enough, and Blackberry ... well, I need to look at
the new generation of Blackberries.

At least I feel like I can cope with this Samsung for the next year or so.

