---
layout: post
title : "me and my new pal thomas jefferson"
date  : "2007-04-21T02:19:07Z"
tags  : ["money"]
---
I am now fulfilling my long-time dream of using almost exclusively $2 bils as
spending money.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/465585180/" title="Photo
Sharing"><img src="http://farm1.static.flickr.com/216/465585180_77b617b86d.jpg"
width="500" height="375" alt="stack of twos" /></a>

Why?  Well, I don't know.  It seems like a lark.  Maybe if more people spend
two dollar bills they'll become more common and it will lead to a stronger
dollar coin... or something.  Whatever, I'm just a dork.

It was fun to wave around a big stack of twos -- the most I've ever seen.  It
was amusing to hear one teller talk about "deuces" as if it was really common
bank teller jargon and the other teller act like she had no idea was the first
was talking about.  Apart from that, nothing interesting has come of it yet.
Today at Hogeez, the clerk gasped when I pulled out a bunch of them and paid
with them.  "These are my favorites," she said, "I collect them!"

This was amusing, since I've been talking a lot about the silliness of hoarding
twos.  I said, "You know they're not worth anything, right?"  She shrugged.
"Yup."

Well, either way, I got my cheesesteak.

I also put all my bills on [Where's George](http://wheresgeorge.com), in hopes
of someday becoming a [Top
Tom](http://web.nsc.nevada.edu/~jason_lee/jlee/toptoms.html).  So far, I've
only circulated "stealth" Toms, but today I marked and sherlocked a bunch of
them.  I also looked over the bizarre [Encyclopaedia
Georgetannica](http://www.wheresgeorge.net/dictionary.html), which lists a lot
of the often weird WG slang.  I think I will mostly avoid the forums.  The
people on the Where's George forums make `#perl` seem like just plain folk.


