---
layout: post
title : first few xbox games
date  : 2008-11-24T15:04:33Z
tags  : ["games", "videogame"]
---
My Xbox 360 came with LEGO Indiana Jones and Kung Fu Panda.   I haven't tried
Kung Fu Panda, but I finished the story mode of Indiana Jones.  It was pretty
good, although nearly the entire Last Crusade scenario was incredibly annoying.
The LEGO games from Tt have a *lot* going for them, but they also have a lot of
flaws that just don't seem to be getting fixed.  They have awful cameras,
terrible jumping predictability, horrible partner AI, and the vehicle chapters
tend to kind of suck.  Despite all that, I'd probably give it a B-.  Like I
said, the LEGO games have a lot going for them.

I borrowed Assassin's Creed from Bryan and played through a bit of it.  It's
pretty cool, but I'm not sure it's going to get its hooks into me.  I'll give
it another hour or so, and then call it "good but not addictive enough."  I
need to be picky about what games I play, since I don't have lots of gaming
time to spend.

I rented Bioshock and Gears of War from Gamefly.  Bioshock is pretty great.
The setting is a lot of fun.  If you aren't familiar with it, it's basically an
Ayn-Rand-inspired community that has gone insane and self-destructed.  The
whole thing is very art deco looking, with slogans hung around the place like,
"Altruism is the origin of all degeneracy."

The gameplay is also good, ranging between really innovative and frustratingly
familiar.  I supposed I should be ashamed of saying this, but I liked FPS
better when you couldn't jump.  Well, no, that's not true.  I get frustrated
when it's impossible to tell whether a surface is too high to jump or I just
suck at jumping.  Further, if I'm a big tough guy who can run and jump, why
can't I climb?  I mean, that wall is only four feet high.  Do I *really* need
to find a way around it?  And why must there be constant footfalls even when
there's nothing nearby?  "Because it's spooky" isn't a good enough reason.

Anyway, that's mostly nitpicking.  Since I set the game to Easy (so that I could
defeat one of the nasty Big Daddies) I've had little reason to complain.  It's
really very good.

I was ready to give up on Gears of War after the first mission or so.  It
looked good and seemed interesting, but I kept getting slaughtered and I had
trouble getting my head around how to play.  Last night I gave it one last
chance and ended up playing for two or three hours.  I really got the hang of
it, and it's fantastic.  I've always liked it when shooters are more tactical
than frantic, and Gears of War is very, very tactics-based.  It throws in some
frenzy, too.  In the last bit I played last night before quitting, I was
engaged in a shooting match with some aliens who had good cover, while also
trying to fend off rushing little bastards who'd swarm me.  I'd stand up to
shoot the "wretches" only to have a "grub" take pot shots at me from behind
cover.

It's very rewarding.

Next up, I'm waiting for Dead Space or Dead Rising.  I played the Dead Rising
demo and it seemed like it might be fun, but I'm not expecting to feel the need
to buy it.  I've heard mostly intense praise for Dead Space, so I'm hoping to
get that next.  I also have Bryan's copy of Mass Effect, and might try to give
that a go this weekend if I haven't gotten a new game from Gamefly yet.

