---
layout: post
title : "first impressions of dnd 4; part 2: rules and non-rules"
date  : "2008-06-29T02:30:34Z"
tags  : ["dnd", "games", "rpg"]
---
It's been ages since I played AD&D 1E, so these memories may be a little
confused.  As I recall, there was no unified skill system.  You had such and
such percent chance to be able to climb a rope or jump a certain distance, but
they were all just table after table of lookup.  Every class had its own table
for all manner of common things.  When I played AD&D, my friends and I had
memorized all kinds of tables, or at least the page on which to look.  (I seem
to recall that an important lookup table is on p. 91 of the 2E PHB.)

Second edition simplified a lot of things by creating proficiencies and the
THAC0 system and a few other simplifications.  Third edition streamlined things
even more, reducing almost everything to a d20 roll.  I had sort of expected 4E
to go the distance and give us something like the True20 system, in which you
only need a d20.  Instead, it's just another few steps along the path that we
were taking.  There are fewer distinct game concepts representing the same
things, which means that the game is easier to learn and adjudicate.  I'm
definitely in favor of that.

The big simplification is the creation of "powers."  The powers system (which
strikes me as totally ripped off (in a good way) from Mutants & Masterminds) is
used to define, well, powers.  Any random effect that your character can cause
to occur is a power.  In 3E, this was represented in part by feats.  Feats
could be used to perform special attacks, and for this reason fighters got lots
of feats.  In 4E, feats are still here, but they're much less important.  For
the most part, they're something like "merits" from the World of Darkness
games.  They give you bonuses to stuff under some circumstances or because of
certain properties of your character.  They don't ever grant you new abilities,
unless they do so by granting you a Power.

Powers can be used either "at will" or "once per encounter" or "once per day."
They all have a power source, a range, an effect, and so on.  If you understand
how powers work, in general, you will do pretty well at understanding any
special ability that any creature possesses at any time.  Spells are no longer
their own thing with their own rules.  They're powers.  Special fighter attacks
are powers.  A cleric's prayers are powers.

Beyond simplifying things for adjudication, this has some significant effects
on how the game will play out.  For example, Magic Missile (a spell used to
attack the darkness) is now an at-will ability, meaning that if you are a
wizard who knows this spell (read: has this power) you can cast Magic Missile
every turn until combat is over.  Your wizard will never run out of spells and
have to throw darts or hide behind the half-orc -- I mean behind the
dracosaurusman.  This doesn't eliminate spellbooks: your wizard still has one,
and it has *more* spells in it than he can use in a day.  So, for example, if
your wizard can have a single once-per-day power, your spell book may include
two.  You pick which one you are going to have prepared, each day.

This means that you can run out of some spells, and you still have the ability
(and dire need) to plan your daily spell inventory carefully.  I think it's
quite an elegant solution, because it *also* seems to work well for fighter
powers (special attacks) and magic items and monsters.

This also means that there's no reason for fighters to get more feats (or
powers) per level than wizards.  A power is a power.  In fact, all characters
progress the same way as they gain XP.  Level 5 characters will all have the
same number of feats, powers, skills, and so on -- or they'll at least have
gained the same number by virtue of simple class progression.

Of course, this wouldn't work very well in 3E, because of the distinction
between class level and character level.  In 3E, you could be a second level
fighter and sixth level bard, meaning you're an eighth level character.  In 4E,
multiclassing is *greatly* stripped down.  You are always a character of one
class.  You may "dabble" in *one* and *only one* other class, meaning you are
able to chose from some of its features as you progress.  If you're used to 3E,
It might take a little while to get your head around 4E multiclassing, but it's
extremely easy to understand once you do.  It's certainly much simpler than the
first two editions.  (Hey, who remembers dual-classing your human?)

There's a really nice little gem built into character progression.  Each level,
you're allowed to say, "When I decided I wanted to know 'Summon Monkey,' I was
on drugs.  It's not useful at all.  I would like to retrain myself to forget
that and learn 'Summon Lemur.'  That seems much better."  This means that you
can be a little less anxious about making sure you pick the "right" skills over
time.  

There are some other changes toward that end.  Skills have been extremely
simplified.  Rather than rating skills from 1 to 20 (or 1 to Inf, I suppose)
you either have a skill or you don't.  Some skills are only available to some
classes.  I'm undecided about this change, so far.  On one hand, I'm glad I'll
never watch a player waffle over putting that one extra point into Bluff versus
Diplomacy.  On the other hand, eventually the bonus from having a skill becomes
less significant.

A basic skill check is something like:

    d20 + ability modifier + ( .5 * character_level ) + (5 if trained)

For a 24th level fighter with a high dexterity, this might mean a base skill
check bonus of 15 for an untrained Thievery check.  Sure, the extra +5 would be
nice, but why on earth can some brute do so well at picking a lock?  The
description of the Thievery skill says that "the DM may decide that this skill
may not even be attempted if not trained," but that strikes me as a cop out.
Either there are "trained only" skills, as in 3E, or there aren't.  Don't just
sort of hint that it might be a good house rule!

Speaking of things you can learn, once again languages suck.  That's okay.
It's not usually a big deal, and I've never seen an RPG in which language
learning seemed in any way realistic.  What bugs me in 4E, though, is that
there is no way to "learn to speak Elven."  Learning a new language requires
picking up a feat that allows you to read, speak, understand, and write *three*
new languages.  The problem, of course, is that a feat for one language would
be a lousy buy, given what other feats can do.  A language isn't a power to
acquire, and you can't gain more pips in skills easily to make it a function of
skill acquisition.  Oh well.  I think that as usual, PCs will learn new
languages by begging the DM for them.

I only skimmed most of chapter nine, which covered combat.  It had all the
usual rules for things that I never bother with.  I'd love to be able to easily
learn and remember all the rules for flanking, cover, grappling, and so on.  It
would be great to take advantage of all the playtesting that has been done to
help combat work well.  It's just too much stuff!

I'll probably read the chapter again, more closely, but so far it looked a lot
like previous editions.  It did use top-down pictures of grids with miniatures
to good effect, though, for explaining things like flanking.

Tomorrow, I may start to read the new DMG in earnest.  Maybe in a week or so
I'll have some thoughts on that.

