---
layout: post
title : "buying beer in bethlehem just got better (years ago)"
date  : "2009-08-01T21:39:55Z"
tags  : ["beer", "booze"]
---
For my birthday, my mom said she was going to buy me a bottle of bourbon that
I'd had on my wish list for some time.  She asked me what it was, and I told
her, but she lost the thing she wrote it on.  I said, "Don't worry about it.
It's hard to find anyway.  I'd like a gift certificate to Tanczos just as
much."

Tanczos is one of our local beverage distributors, which is the kind of
business you need to go to buy beer by the case in Pennsylvania.  [Buying
alcohol in PA is weird.]({% post_url 2007-08-30-getting-wasted-in-pennsylvania %})  Tanczos is
very, very good.  They have a huge selection, friendly staff, and they're
well-organized.  Newcomers to town are usually pretty impressed.  (I'm told
that Tanczos is often among the higest-rated beverage distributors in the
state, usually falling just behind another local place, Shangy's.)

I figured I'd do my usual boring thing and get a case of either Hop Devil or
Hop Wallop from my favorite local brewery, Victory.  Hop Devil is a nearly
perfect beer, in my estimation.  Before heading over, though, I had a look at
Victory's web page and discovered something I'd never seen before:
[WildDevil](http://www.victorybeer.com/wild_devil.aspx).  It's a wild fermented
version of Hop Devil.  It looked really interesting, and I figured I'd never
see it unless I went down to the brewery, but when I went to Tanczos to get my
beer, there it was, on the top shelf.

WildDevil is sold in cases of 12 bombers.  A bomber is a 750mL beer bottle.
That means one case of 12 bombers is about the same as a case of 24 ISBs.  The
case was $90, a little less than triple what I usually pay for a case of beer,
but I was sorely tempted.  I talked to Brian, who was interested in splitting a
case three ways, and to Kip, who was also interested -- but suggested that I
try visiting [Abe's Cold Beer](http://abescoldbeer.com/) to see if they had it
in singles.

I've seen Abe's many, many times.  It's on Broad St. between my house and my
parents' house, and it looks a lot like a crappy convenience store that sells
six packs.  It turns out that they have an enormous selection of imported and
craft beers, and you can buy all (or nearly all) of them singly.  They also had
Victory WildDevil (and Saison, and some other semi-rarities) in single bombers.
I got a bottle for $8.75 and I mixed a six of some other beers I'd like to try.
Mixed sixes are $11.75, unless they include anything particularly expensive --
which isn't all that much stuff.  You can see [my selection for
today](http://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/3778431117/) if you're interested.

Abe's is also in walking distance, at only a mile and a half away.  I will
definitely be going back frequently.

