---
layout: post
title : what i want from a d&d wiki
date  : 2009-07-12T19:03:28Z
tags  : ["dnd", "rpg", "software", "wiki"]
---
I want a system in which my players can keep logs of the adventures.  I want
them to be in a clear sequence so you can click "next" and "previous" without
having to set the links up yourself.  I want it to be possible to have multiple
summaries.  One unbiased log, a per-player (or per-character) log, and maybe
others.

I want some pages to be read-only (like house rules) and some pages to be
hidden.  For example, I don't want the players to see my notes on the game's
secrets.  I would like players to be able to create pages that only they can
see, but I want to be able to see them all.

I'd like to structure pages so that any page can include content with the above
access controls.  I'd like really like [parameterized
transclusion](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transclusion#Parameterization) so I
can make many kinds of page look similar to one another.

I like tagging, so I want that, and I love the way that
[TiddlyWiki](http://tiddlywiki.com/) does it: when you tag a page with X, you
are just saying that the page has a relationship with the page X.  You can then
click from the tag to the page for X to read about what it is or what the tag
means.

That might be it.

I really don't need much of anything that's D&D-specific.  The fact that some
pages are "characters" and some are "locations" is sort of a user-specific
layer on top of the generic structured wiki.  I think making something
D&D-specific is probably more about writing a workflow for using a wiki tool,
and that's fine with me.  By not building the RPG logic into the software, I
can use it in different ways.  For example, Obsidian Portal codes in its
assumptions about gaming, so you can't have one campaign with two parties of
PCs.

If I wanted to take this tool and make it something for many campaigns to use,
then I'd also want workspaces.  A workspace would just be a namespace with
default permissions, and would probably represent a campaign.  Nested
workspaces would make multiple parties easy, but at that point it's probably
overkill.  I'm not sure.

I'm going to try installing [Wagn](http://wagn.org/), which looks pretty suited
to my needs.  I'm not certain about one or two parts, but I think that if I get
most of what I want, I'll be satisfied enough to just use that.  My experience
has been that I'm very spoiled by CPAN, and that installing Wagn is going to be
a pain.  I'm looking forward to being proven wrong.

