---
layout: post
title : more on ebooks, Kindle, O'Reilly, and Amazon
date  : 2010-08-02T23:35:56Z
tags  : ["ebooks"]
---
First off, I will note that I've decided to make a little Amazon "aStore" for
[stuff I find myself recommending a lot](http://astore.amazon.com/rjbs-20).  Be
forewarned that I'm going to link to it when I link to stuff I endorse, and
that if you buy from it, I get some cash.  If you find this repellant, copy the
ASIN and search for it at Amazon and buy there.

My father recently had some major heart surgery.  (He's fine now, and the speed
of his recovery is pretty impressive!)  He got stuck in the hospital for about
a week, and I told him he could borrow my
[PRS-300](http://astore.amazon.com/rjbs-20/detail/B002MSNS4S) to read stuff
while stuck in bed for all that time.  Unfortunately, it didn't quite work for
him, and I was off at OSCON.  When I got back, I rebooted it and it was fine,
but he didn't get any quality time with it, so I loaned it back to him.  After
a day or so with it, he seemed sort of semi-interested.  He was also kind of
interested for me to bring by my other, bigger ebook.  I was surprised, because
I think of it as a pretty special-purpose device.  Then again, my dad is a
serious gadget man -- much moreso than I am.

So, I went back the next day with my beloved [Kindle
DX](http://astore.amazon.com/rjbs-20/detail/B002GYWHSQ).  I use mine for
reading technical books, because they just don't scale down nicely to the
little five inch screen on the Sony reader.  Dad was captivated.  He could read
at all kinds of font sizes -- the Sony supports three, but anything small is
often pointless, since you only get a few words on the screen at once
otherwise.  He could print genealogy reports as PDFs and show them to relatives
while visiting.  He could take them with him to rural churches where
researching more family history, for reference.  He liked the text-to-speech
feature.  Shortly after I left, he went ahead and ordered it.  I'm really
interested to see how he likes it, after some time.  I'm even more interested
to see whether it can be used as leverage to get him to donate away some of his
huge collection of unlikely-to-be-read-again books.

As for me, like I said, I really like my DX.  My big problem is getting books
for it.  Many of the best classic and important texts on programming are just
entirely unavailable on ebook.  Addison-Wesley and Pearson titles are the worst
offenders, possibly because they published some of the most important early
books on UNIX and C programming.  There don't seem to be legal editions of
[Software Tools](http://astore.amazon.com/rjbs-20/detail/020103669X), [The
Unix Programming
Environment](http://astore.amazon.com/rjbs-20/detail/013937681X), [TCP/IP
Illustrated](http://astore.amazon.com/rjbs-20/detail/0201633469), [Advanced
Programming in the UNIX
Environment](http://astore.amazon.com/rjbs-20/detail/0201433079), or dozens of
other really, really great, important titles.  It's not just that I want to
have digital copies for fun, either.  APUE, for example, is almost a thousand
pages long, 2.5 inches thick, and weighs almost five pounds.  This is not a
book I can stick in my bag to carry around and read!  The same goes for plenty
of other really useful technical books.  I am against buying books with
restrictions on their use, but to make these books *usable*, I'd probably
suffer through it.  I could really use the shelf space, too.

[O'Reilly Media](http://oreilly.com/ebooks) seems to be way ahead of everyone
else in the field.  Not only do they offer a large fraction of their catalog in
electronic form, but they tend to do it in multiple formats (epub, mobi, PDF,
and more), and they do it without DRM.  They also have a "deal of the day" that
drops the price of one ebook to $10.  It's usually something I'm not interested
in, but once or twice a month at least I buy the book and get a great deal on
something.  I was also very excited when I saw that their [Safari
Bookshelf](http://my.safaribooksonline.com/) program seemed to be targeting
Kindle for its mobile interface.  Unfortunately, what I found was that it was
hard to navigate, unpleasant to use, slow, and often just inaccessible when I
was on the road.  This is where O'Reilly should embrace some kind of scheme for
limited duration book checkout, as some libraries now do with EPUB books.  I
don't think Amazon provides a way to do this, but it would add a lot of value
to Safari Bookshelf *and* Kindle.  I was so disappointed in the performance of
Safari Bookshelf on Kindle that I ended up canceling my account.  I'd
definitely go back if I could get books onto my reader.

When I want to read web pages on the Kindle, I tend to go through
[Instapaper](http://www.instapaper.com/), which can strip articles like news
sites, Wikipedia pages, or blog entries down to just formatted text.  I've set
it up to send my unread articles to me wirelessly so I can read them offline.
They show up looking something like magazine, and they're much easier to read
offline than when sitting at a browser with lots of other windows trying to
distract me.

Now that I'm reading more and more on my Kindle DX, I'm starting to find the
things I really do and don't like.  The basic likes are pretty easy to imagine:
it's light, it holds a charge for days or weeks, it holds all my technical
ebooks at once, it's easy to get books onto, and when absolutely necessary it
makes a tolerable Wikipedia reader.  The fact that it can read full-page PDFs
without scaling down to an unreadable or squint-inducing scale is also a great
thing, and a large part of what makes the DX so useful for me -- I can read
technical books and scanned journal papers easily.

Unfortunately, every once in a while an ebook comes along that is just no good
even on the DX.  The original [free version of Higher-Order
Perl](http://hop.perl.plover.com/book/) was one of these, because every page
had huge margins that did nothing but cause the page to be zoomed out until
illegible.  (Joe McMahon very kindly removed this whitespace and the HOP
website now offers a much Kindle-DX-friendlier PDF.)  O'Reilly's "Rough Cuts,"
seem to have this problem, too.  They only offer their books in PDF, which is
fine, but they tack on large margins and footers that cause the whole page to
become nearly unreadable.

Surely, the Kindle DX can zoom in and pan around the page, but this is slow,
ugly, and basically not something that anyone would really want to do to read a
book.  It's nice that the feature was added, but it really doesn't mitigate the
"I can't read this PDF because of the font size" problem.  Or, rather, it
replaces that problem with one of nearly equal obnoxiousness.

PDFs are, in most ways, inferior for reading on the Kindle DX.  They can't be
reasonably font-resized because they're already typeset.  (This isn't Kindle's
fault, it's just the way things are.)  They aren't as searchable.  Their
metadata isn't as easy to edit.  They don't offer as many "jump to" locations
-- except for one kind: pages.  PDFs, because they are typeset, have pages.
Ebook formats, on the Kindle, do not.  This drives me *batty*.  I realize, of
course, that there are no physical pages, but including page number markers
would be really welcome.  The EPUB format supports this.  On my Sony, the
current position indicator tells me that I'm on page 4, or seeing parts of both
page 4 and 5.  Sure, at most font sizes I will be "on page 4" for several page
turns, but that's okay.  On Kindle, most of my books seem to have thousands of
"locations," which are presumably something like "paragraphs."  I haven't
looked into it.  This is a problem when someone asks, "What page is that on?"
I have no idea.  "It's at location 48,102." doesn't help them.  I can't even
tell them what chapter or section it's in, either, because Kindle ebooks do not
usually have headers or footers announcing the current section, which a PDF
book does show.

On a related note, it's nice that page breaks no longer need to be a hassle.
If a code listing seems to be broken at a page turn, I can advance just half a
screen's worth of lines to get the code listing centered on one screen.  It's
unfortunate that to do so, I need to manually enter a new location number,
instead of just hitting something like Shift+NextPage.

As I put more books onto my Kindle, I'm finding it harder to get to just the
book I want.  The Kindle book-browsing interface is no iTunes.  They did
recently add "Collections," but they can only be managed from the device
itself, and that's pretty slow and gross.  It would be nice to get an OS X
program that could organize my Kindle's content for me by manipulating the
files on it directly.  Instead, I'm stuck with
[Calibre](http://calibre-ebook.com/), a program that is both fantastic and
horrible at the same time.

Finally, there are all the little things that bug me about Kindle: I wish I
could change the sleep screen images without "hacking" the software;  I wish
bookmarks and notes were easier to add.  Kindle recently added a Twitter
client for posting excerpts, but it can't post random tweets, and posts from my
own PDFs only credit "personal document" and not the book by name.

In the end, though, the Kindle DX has been well worth the price, and I'm
definitely getting a lot more technical reading done.  I'm hoping that the
future brings us a Kindle more on the scale of the Sony PRS-300, because even
the Kindle 3 is just a bit too big for my pockets.

