---
layout: post
title : "microsoft customer service madness"
date  : "2010-02-04T00:00:10Z"
tags  : ["stupid", "xbox"]
---
In January, I ordered an [Xbox 360 Play & Charge
Kit](http://www.amazon.com/Xbox-360-Play-Charge-Kit/dp/B000B6MLS2) from Amazon.
It's a NiMH battery pack with a USB cable to connect the controller (also a
charger) to the Xbox.  It arrived a few days later.  While the cable would
power the controller, its "charging" light wouldn't come on and it didn't seem
to be charging the controller.  The kit came with a piece of paper that said,
"In case of problems, do not return!  Contact Microsoft!"

It didn't say how to do that, but I found a way to do it online (it wasn't
very easy, either) and after a few emails, they told me to phone them.  On the
phone, they gave me a mailing address.  "Send the kit here and we will send you
a replacement."  That sounded fair, so I did so.

Today, I got a package in the mail from Microsoft.  I opened it, and it
contained an [Xbox 360 Quick Charge
Kit](http://www.amazon.com/Xbox-360-Quick-Charge-Kit/dp/B000EYF88G).  This is a
slightly different product.  It's more expensive, but does not allow you to
play while you charge.  Without two battery packs, it's not very useful, and it
only comes with one.

I called Microsoft to explain their error, and after *a lot* of explaining, the
representative asked me for my tracking number for the item I sent to their
returns facility.  I said, "I never got one."  He hissed and said he'd *try* to
help, but that without a tracking number, they couldn't prove that the facility
had ever received my original item.

"Well," I said, "you sent me a replacement, so surely you did it after
receiving something.  Also, the replacement is in a box labeled with my RMA
number."

This didn't mean much to him.  He said I should go to the local USPS office and
ask for my tracking number.  I assured him that this was not possible.  USPS
does not have a tracking number for every parcel, unless one is requested.  He
confirmed this with his supervisor.  Instead, he said, I could just give them
my "drop off confirmation number," which would be on my receipt.

"I sent this over a week ago.  I do not have the receipt anymore." He said I
should go to the USPS and ask them for my receipt.  I tried to explain that the
post office would have no means to find a record of my business with them.  The
guy kept repeating that I could just go ask USPS for my receipt and they'd have
it... somehow.  I'm pretty sure he thought I was insane for suggesting
otherwise.

Eventually I said, "You know, I have the tracking number of the package in
which my replacement came."  This excited him, and he took the number and put
me on hold.  When he came back he said, "Great!  Now we know you received a
package from us!  All I need now is the tracking number for the package you
sent us."  He seemed to think that I had the number, but was reluctant to give
it.

"Look," I said, "I have a box, from you, with a tracking number showing you
sent it and I received it.  It has my RMA number on it, which refers to what I
sent in.  The box's shipping label has the name of the incorrect part.  How on
Earth is this not enough information?"

He said, "I'm going to go the extra mile here and really be on your side.  I'm
going to bypass our procedures and file this request anyway.  It will probably
be rejected, but I promise you I'll call you back.  When I promise I'll do
something, I'll do it!"  I'm pretty sure I'm never gonna hear from this guy
again.  I'll call them on Tuesday and they'll deny having any knowledge of my
case or possibly of what an Xbox is.

On the bright side, at least I ended up with something more expensive than what
I sent them.  If they had sent me a small plastic widget-cover, I'd be pretty
angry.  As it is, I just think they're hopelessly disorganized.

