---
layout: post
title : low-tech combat and character tracker
date  : 2011-03-11T02:12:49Z
tags  : ["dnd"]
---
I see lots of people talk about using software on their laptops or smartphones
for tracking combat in D&D.  Mostly, people talk about tracking initiative.
This always struck me as weird:  I just write down everybody in order on a
scrap of paper and throw it out later.

I have seen some tools that show you everyone's defenses and hit points, and
that's good, but the programs I've seen generally stink.  I was always happy
with my scrap of paper with "Orc - 12" and so on.  At the most recent game,
though, I think I must've said, "What's your reflex defense, again?" about two
dozen times.  I've been trying to find ways to avoid combat getting boring and
repetitive, and eliminating that question seemed like a good way.  I'm also
rereading the chapters on the fundamentals in DMG and DMG2, and making quick
references was encouraged there, too.

The web character builder prints out a little quick ref panel, but it had some
things I didn't want and was missing some things that I did.  The last thing I
wanted was having to deal with visual clutter while trying to speed up a
complex combat.  I figured it would be easy to make my own cards, and it was.

I used OmniGraffle to make a roughly 2" x 6" form, and printed it, two up, on
4x6 glossy photo stock that I had sitting around.  After a few iterations, I
was happy with the result.  I bought a small magnetic whiteboard.  I'm going to
keep the character cards on the board and organize them by initiative.  Monster
notes can be scribbled onto a 3x5 card and put into the initiative order, too.
The exposed whiteboard surface is useful for noting who is bloodied, stunned,
or whatever else.

<a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/5516421576/" title="new D&amp;D
combat tracking technology by rjbs, on Flickr"><img
src="http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5139/5516421576_daa3368772.jpg" width="374"
height="500" alt="new D&amp;D combat tracking technology" /></a>

I've ordered new magnetic clips to hold the cards so that I can move them with
one hand.  I think this is going to be a nice improvement, and I look forward
to finding out whether or not I'm right.

