---
layout: post
title : "YAPC auction considered lousy"
date  : "2011-07-01T15:42:58Z"
tags  : ["perl", "yapc"]
---
Every year at YAPC::NA, there is a conference dinner where I end up sitting
with some people I know and some people I don't.  We talk about the conference,
and Perl, and our jobs, and the city, and so on.  Once we're part all the
introductory small talk, the auction starts and we spend two hours waiting for
it to stop.  Once it's over, we leave.

I can't stand the YAPC auction.

First of all, as I have described, it ruins the social aspect of the largest
social gathering of the conference.  There are basically four kinds of social
gatherings at YAPC:  the arrival dinner, the conference dinner, hackathons, and
the "hallway track."  Hackathons are (in theory) very focused on one topic,
attended by people who already work on them.  You don't meet new people there,
in general, and if you do, you spend the time talking about your project,
rather than just getting to know each other.  The hallway track is great.  It's
the socializing that goes on between talks.  There's lots of great talk in the
hallways, but it's usually with people you already know, and any conversation
occurs under threat of, "Oh, I actually want to go see a talk now."

Meals are much better for sustained conversation with people you haven't met
before.  OSCON is great for this, because there is a provided lunch on several
days, and the population of the conference is huge.  At YAPC, we don't have
provided lunch (which is fine, because it means the conference remains cheap)
but without an official lunch destination, it means that you end up getting
lunch with people you know at a random place you pick.  This leaves us with
breakfast and dinner.  Breakfast is usually a lot like lunch, but at YAPC this
year, it was better: the hotel sold breakfast, so lots of people sat together
at breakfast and talked.

There are two important dinners at YAPC:  the arrival dinner and the main
conference dinner.  The arrival dinner is attended by some subset of people who
have arrived the day before, and is usually at some local bar or restaurant.
My experience is that it's usually okay, somewhat overpriced, food.  That's
fine, but the real problem is that it's in a restaurant, which means that you
can't easily mingle.  It also means you're usually seated at a narrow table
where you can only talk to three or four people comfortably, and you will
struggle to talk over everyone else, because everyone will be talking nearby in
a room with low ceilings and poor acoustics.  I'll pass.

So, finally, the conference dinner!  It's often held in a banquet hall.  That
means high ceilings, which means everyone can talk more quietly.  There are big
round tables, so you can talk to eight or nine other people at once, without
craning your neck.  Because there are so many seats, you're unlikely to
sit *only* with people you know.  There's nowhere to go after the dinner, and
you can sit and talk for as long as you like.  It's usually the first or second
day of the conference, so anyone you befriend at the conference dinner, you can
talk to in the hallway track over the rest of the conference.

Instead, though, the whole thing becomes dinner theater, where you watch an
auction.  You can try to ignore it, but talking over the auction means you're
back to the "loud room" problem.

So, what is the auction?  It's supposed to be something like equal parts
entertainment and fund raiser.  I don't think it works as entertainment, but it
is at least somewhat successful as a fund raiser.  In the end, there isn't very
much interesting about watching an auction.  Very occasionally, a massive bid
makes everyone gasp, or the auctioneer says something particularly funny.
Mostly, though, it comes down to a lot of "come on, guys, we can do better than
this."  Uri ran the auction for many years, and was often pretty funny.  This
year, there was a round-robin format that also resulted in some pretty funny
moments.  Still, the central message isn't, "we're having fun," but, "you
aren't giving enough."  The more often you hear, "come on, bid *more*," the
less entertaining it is.  There is nothing less entertaining than a telethon.

Beyond that, what does the auction say about the community?  It doesn't seem to
encourage a real sense of community, because in the end it means that only X
people participate, and everyone else is a double outsider:  once because
they're not answering the organizer's pleading for money and once again because
they're left sitting at the table, with nothing to do and no one to talk to.
It's contrary to everything we say we want YAPC to be about.

So, if we need the fund raising that the auction performs, what else can be
done about it?  After the auction in Asheville, I joked that we'd have made
even more money (by a small amount) if we just got everyone to make a
no-strings-attached donation of $20, and that one way to do this was to say,
"If everybody throws in $20, we won't have an auction.  If this is your first
YAPC and you don't know about the auction, ask one of your table-mates.  He or
she can tell you how much happier you will be if you throw in the twenty
bucks."

I actually don't like this idea.  It means that the auction might happen.  My
real proposal is more like this:

First, make a list of all the items up for "auction."  Post the list on the
wall.  Put it on the website and the printed schedule.  Email everyone with it.

Attendees can then go to TPF or some designated organizer and make a donation.
At the end of the conference dinner, the auction donation window closes.  The
highest donor (with ties broken in some fashion) gets first pick from the
list of items.  This can be done publicly (to honor the donor) or privately
(to avoid disrupting dinner).  Either way, it will take much, much less time
than the current auction.  Donations that didn't rank highly enough to make the
list are not returned.  They are *donations*.

Some items can be held in reserve to be awarded to random donors who did not
win a choice of prize.  This encourages giving even $10, because $10 still
might win you one of the fabulous prizes.  The Surge conference, in 2010,
offered this sort of raffle-style prize to attendees.  It took very little
time, and was more interesting to watch because you might win without doing
much other than showing up (and, in the case of my suggestion, making a small
donation).  I won a copy of the O'Reilly Erlang book, which may have helped my
opinion of the thing.

I'm sure other people might have other ideas, and maybe better ones.  I hope we
can get the organizers of the next YAPC::NA to accept one instead of an
auction, too, because otherwise I think I will just take my leave of the
conference dinner when the auction starts -- and invite the rest of my table to
do the same, so we can finish our conversations elsewhere.



