---
layout: post
title : "RPG Recap: Beyond the Temple of the Abyss, 2011-11-19"
date  : "2011-12-20T23:38:09Z"
tags  : ["rpg-beyond", "dnd", "rpg"]
---
## Wednesday, the 4th day of the Red Moon, 937

With their shift patrolling the temple dungeon nearly over, the crew was headed
back topside to see whether the shift-marking timepiece had been properly
calibrated, or whether they'd be coming out into the dead of night again.
Before they got to the surface, though, they heard some noises coming from down
the hall of the old dormitory area.  Before a plan could be formulated, Gabe's
fighter (Int 4) took off down the hall, only stopping when he realized he
hadn't brought a torch.

A group of goblins had taken refuge in one of the larger rooms, and when the
party closed in on them, they had nowhere to run -- except straight through.
One of the goblins slipped through the line and made a break for it, only to be
chased by Gabe's cleric (1 hp).  It didn't take too too long for that to end
badly.  The dead cleric was avenged by Ben's magic-user, who bravely held off
on casting his one magic missile, instead taking the goblin out with a lucky
bowshot.

Meanwhile, the fighter and Poseidon (Ben's Dex 6 "Thief with a Trident")
engaged the other goblins, showing no mercy.  The fighter hacked one right in
two, and Poseidon skewered one on his trident... but was quickly disarmed and
killed in turn by the goblin's fellow, before *he* was knocked down, disarmed,
and skewered by the fighter, who was eager to see the death of his friends
avenged.  The magic-user scavenged a set of goblin clothes from one of the
less-bloody goblins.  You know, just in case.

With the goblin bodies dumped down the waterfall and the PC's bodies
strenuously hauled out of the dungeon, the party met their (now mostly drunk)
replacements waiting for them at the shelter atop the temple.  One of them made
a clumsy attempt to help load the bodies, only to be knocked sprawling by the
figher, who was eager to see his friends' bodies handled only *respectfully*.

No rest for the wicked, though.  When they got back to the barracks, Capt. Horn
sent them right back out:  Bellory, the good-for-nothing dogsbody from the
Gladwell place had come in looking for help and reporting a goblin raid.
Restocking on adventurers, the surviving magic-user and fighter headed out to
the farm, with a fresh cleric and thief (with a trident, suspiciously named
Neptune).

In the stable, they found two badly mauled horses, lying atop a rough hole
leading into the ground.  They crawled down the hole and found a large room
under the stable, with a days-old horse butchered and hung up, and signs of a
fight in spilled blood on the floor.  Chimneys lead up and down, and a passage
out to the east, where the party found a small curtained alcove with two dead
man-eaters in it, killed by brutal puncture wounds to the chest.

...and that's where we stopped.

