---
layout: post
title : "too many healing surges!"
date  : "2011-08-24T03:00:44Z"
tags  : ["dnd", "rpg"]
---
I think my 4E party members have too many healing surges.  I don't think is
peculiar to them.  I just think it's how 4E works.  For example, Orc the Orc, a
6th level Weaponmaster, has 15 healing surges per day.  A healing surge is
worth about 25% of his total HP (which is 64) so he can take about 314 HP of
damage before being dead, assuming he can always spend his healing surges by
spending his second and third wind, by healing powers or potions, by exiting
combat, or whatever other means.

It's really pretty hard to run a character down to zero surges, though.  In
combat, you can probably get through about three surges, in the heroic tier.
You can blow your second wind and, if you're lucky, get healed twice.  Orc has
a third wind, which helps, but it's still tough.  Once you've gotten through
those three or surges, unless you have some magic around, you're going to die.
If you *survive*, though, and if you can take a break for five minutes, you can
spend as many healing surges as you want.  So, the first combat takes you down
three surges and all your health but 1HP, you can immediately spent four more
surges to return to full health.  It's actually pretty likely, in my
experience, that the player won't have to heal all that much, because in the
first combat, the party will still have their daily powers.

If the party gets into another combat, they can blow three surges again.  If
Orc ends up at 1 HP again, he can blow another four healing surges.  Now he's
at full health and down to one healing surge.  He can still take 80 HP before
going down.  Unfortunately, it's very unlikely that we can ever fit three
encounters into one session, especially since we want to get some story in
there, too.  I find it's tough to ever get to a point where the PCs actually
feel worn down.

I did succeed at this once or twice, by basically never leaving combat.  This
meant the PCs could never freely spend healing surges.  There was plenty of
time that they weren't using combat powers: they were sliding down zip
lines, running across loose tile roofs, and sneaking past guards.  This led to
a bizarre situation where, at the end of the day, they were all down to a
handful of hit points, but had an enormous number of healing surges left.

Imagine that the game had *begun* with that combat.  Then, by the time they
were nearly utterly run down to zero hit points, chased across the rooftops of
the city, and then down into the sewer and then to the undercity where they
could finally take a break... they would've been back to full health and
*still* had a pile of surges left!  So how do you combat that?  You put
*another* encounter right after the short rest after the first massive
encounter.  The party won't *feel* like they're actually fighting after a long
struggle to survive, because the only thing they're down from being freshly
rested is their daily powers.

I want the party to sometimes feel run down and stretched to the limit, but I
don't want to have to run three or four encounters to get that feeling.  I also
don't want to just have a single encounter that uses up all their healing and
kills them that way.  I want to be able to nickel and dime them in a way that
4E seems to make difficult.  I think it is time for me to try some house rules.

Here's what I'm thinking, to start with:

* **Healing surges spent outside of combat, without healing powers, can only be spent once per hour.**  When you get a five minute break from combat, you do not get all your HP back.  You get a quarter of them.  If you can stay out of trouble for another hour, you can get back another quarter.  I'm not sure if "one hour" is the right duration, but it seems like a reasonable start.

* **You don't regenerate all your hit points automatically overnight.**  If you want to get your HP back overnight, you need to spend the appropriate number of healing surges.  You'll definitely have enough time, since extended rest is six hours, and you can't possibly need to spend more than four surges.

* **You don't regenerate all of your healing surges automatically overnight.** Instead, you get two.  This means that if you're down to 1 HP and zero surges, you can get back to full HP in two days of rest.

* **Healing surges become *recovery points*.**  What does that mean?  Well, you can use them for things other than healing.  I'm not sure exactly what yet, but here are some ideas:  spend a recovery point to make an extra saving throw; spend a recovery point to regain an encounter power; spend two recovery points to regain a daily power.  I think I'd like to replace action points with these, too.  This means that not only will PCs be slower to regain surges, they will be quicker to spend them on *non-healing* purposes.  It means that during combat, they'll have to decide whether to focus on being able to heal (either during or after combat) or on engaging in tactical maneuvers by regaining
spent, useful powers.

In the end, I'm trying to fight two problems in 4E:  the 15-minute adventuring
day and the amazing never-tired hero.  I don't think there is a huge benefit to
stopping for a rest, with these changes.  There's a benefit, but it's got its
own risks.  After all, during your six to eight hour extended rest -- taken to
recover your daily powers naturally -- you're risking more random encounters
than you might by just pushing on.  That risk existed before, but the benefit
for an extended rest was *enormous*:  all your HP and all your surges, on top
of your powers.  Oh, and an action point!

So, the characters have a more balanced choice between resting and continuing,
and *either way* they will grow fatigued after days of pushing it.  They will
need to establish a safe camp for *truly* extended rests of several days, now
and then.  I think that will help restore some of the feel of older D&D, where
this was also a necessity.

I look forward to testing this in play.

