---
layout: post
title : RPG Recap: Beyond the Temple of the Abyss, 2011-12-03
date  : 2011-12-20T23:44:59Z
tags  : ["rpg-beyond", "dnd", "rpg"]
---
## Wednesday, the 4th day of the Red Moon, 937

Neptune, Maxwell, Dave, and Gabe's nameless fighter continued to explore the
caverns beneath the Gladwell place.  Presumably quite unknown to the Gladwells,
there seemed to be a whole clutch of man-eaters living beneath their land.  By
the time the party was discovering this, though, they'd been largely
slaughtered already, though the culprit has not yet been found.  A few
man-eaters, still clutching weapons and on the defensive, were found and
dispatched, but not their attacker.

The only evidence of the attacker, beyond corpses, was a set of unusual
footprints in the blood in the abbatoir and a weird severed limb amid some dead
man-eaters -- and a few sprays of fragrant, bright yellow blood on the walls
there.

The party slowly made its way through the caverns, gathering a small collection
of treasure as they went, mostly in silver and gems.  They found a few
priceless religious artifacts, which Maxwell destroyed quickly, lest their
blasphemy escape the cave.  The fighter picked up a small, grotesque rag doll
and a block of kitchen knives covered in a weird, multicolored crust.  Its true
nature was never determined, but a daring lick by the fighter did identify it
as highly poisonous.  (He lived.)

Our heroes found evidence of tunnels here and there, but mostly stuck to the
main passages.  Eventually, they found a long, slightly broader passage that
led to a dead end.  Its walls were painted with large, crude murals of the
man-eaters' epic stories, and the room terminated in a broad crack in the
stone, across from a ledge covered in coins, small animal remains, and other
bits and bobs.  After picking through the stuff, the fighter decided to find
out what was down the hole.  Dave the Magic User dropped a torch, which put its
depth at about 75', but the torch landed in a shallow stream, and when the
fighter (and Neptune, who followed) reached the bottom, they had to light a new
torch... revealing a towering, revolting humanoid, who did not take kindly to
visitors.

The rest of the party rushed down into the black abyss to join the fray, but
even with their powers combined, they were no match for the thing.  Its touch
was paralyzing, and its wounds closed on their own.  Even once the thing slew
Neptune and began attacking with the trident -- losing its paralyzing touch --
there was no change in the tide of battle.  Soon, all hands were lost.  The
party's bodies (not to mention their accumulated treasure) were left to the
creature's whims.

