---
layout: post
title : "RPG Recap: Beyond the Temple of the Abyss, 2012-03-24"
date  : "2012-03-25T02:30:24Z"
tags  : ["rpg-beyond", "dnd", "rpg"]
---
## Monday, the 9th day of the Red Moon, 937

Alive and burdened with gold, Rocky, Rigby, and Delian got the bodies of
Derick and Egbert onto their cart and back to Edgwold where Umholt the
Undertaker took delivery of them and shelved them for burial later that day.
The survivors reported in to Captian Horn.  Horn wasn't thrilled at reports
of "a tribe of kobolds" under the estate, nor those of a subterranean lake
with an unknown monster count, or roaming zombies.  Delian said it was clear:
the Gladwell place wasn't sitting on a cavern, but on a dungeon.

Horn said he'd have someone install some locked gratings over the entrances.
Until then, though, the group was to go back in and keep counting the
threats.

## Tuesday, the 10th day of the Red Moon, 937

In the morning, the party rounded up some new blood:  Prudence the Medium and
Tamara the Proselyte.  They replaced their shields, deposited their gold with
the treasurer, and made for the dungeon.  (But not before Rocky won a bigger share of the haul by utterly humiliating Delian at arm-wrestling.)

Before even entering the abattoir, Rocky spied a huge white centipede gorging
itself on the carcasses of zombies they'd left behind.  Rather than seek
another path, they carefully inched their way past the thing toward the
fireplace.  There were no problems: it was too busy eating.

The party decided to head for the unexplored western end of the second level,
across all the fake cave-ins from the Dwarfish mine-top.  They'd almost
reached their destination when they heard noises and mumbling off to the
east.  Everyone readied weapons while the voice cried out its hellos and
don't-hurt-mes.  A little blue-clad goblin scrambled over the half-cleared
pile-up and greeted the group enthusiastically.  He made it very clear that
he didn't want any trouble, that he was a big fan of the party's work
clearing out the man-eaters – he called them "morlocks," noting that they
weren't limited to eating *men* – and that he could really use some help.

The goblin (Huk) was a messenger who'd been sent to deliver a message to the
kobolds in the northern mines, but when he got near the mine, he saw that the
dwarfish skeletons, long dormant around their treasure, were moving about,
marching in a circle around the room.  Huk didn't dare try to sneak past
them, and he'd been waiting so long that the "night doors" were all closed.
He explained that the dungeon was replete with secret doors that lead all
over the place, but could only be opened at night, and with the right magic.
He'd been sent through one near dawn, by his employers with the Traveling
Market, but now he was stuck: he didn't dare flee to the surface or head
through the dwarfs to the kobolds.

If the party would *clear out* the skeletons, though, Huk would be happy to
repay the group with an invitation to the market.  ("But remember, unless I
get back and tell them to expect you, it's no good!  So I have to get out of
here alive!")  Everyone agreed, but stipulated that Huk had to show them how
the night doors worked.  He was slow to believe that the pink folk would want
to stick around for six hours until nightfall, but agreed to wait with them,
if they really wanted to.

With the deal made, the group headed east and took up positions on the stairs
headed up to the mine-top.  After some largely ineffective bowfire, melee
commenced between the groups.  Tamara knocked down several of the skeletons,
shoving her way up the stairs past them with her glaive.  Several of their
skulls were crushed under her boots.  Rocky didn't manage to equal the
death-dealing performance of his last delve, but miraculously escaped death
from the terrible blows of the dwarf's axes.  Prudence lobbed darts at first
(pointlessly), a magic missile later (to good effect), and finally ended up
whacking at a prone skeleton with her staff.  Delian fired an opening volley
of sickle-fire, throwing his weapon in a perfect arc over his allies and onto
the approaching dwarfs.  Later, after a brief bout of standing guard over
Huk, he'd close ranks again to help finish off the last few skeletons.

Everyone fared well, save for Rigby, who had his left forearm chopped clean
off by a dwarf's axe, and spent the rest of the adventure all but dead on his
feet.  The "all but" was thanks to Huk, who made a mad dash for one of the
group's torches and cauterized the wound.

Once the way was clear, Huk scurried on down the northern passage to deliver
his message while the adventurers crushed dwarf skulls.  With plenty of time
to kill until nightfall, they decided to set up camp rather than keep
exploring.  They blocked off the western stairs with the minecarts and took
turns resting.  The only trouble came from one zombie man-eater who Rocky cut
down with an arrow and was subsequently set alight.  Later, the sound of
stonework could be heard, but investigation was ruled out: it wasn't getting
any closer, and nobody wanted to risk it.

Unfortunately, when the group got moving again, they found all too quickly
what the sounds had been.  Not only had the rock pile blocking off the old
mine been rebuilt, it had also been mortared solid, and Rocky couldn't pull
it apart.  There followed a lengthy debate between the party about how to
proceed: they could try using Huk's incredibly explosive jelly to blow down
the wall, they could storm the Kobolds, or they could go through one of the
night doors.  (Swimming through the flooded rooms to the south was also
mentioned, but never seriously entertained.)  Huk seemed keen on the jelly,
but cautioned that it might not be the best idea if anybody would miss any of
the structures within a hundred yards or so.  The group was split: Delian
favored taking a blind trip through one of the doors; Tamara was sure she
could figure out a way to destroy the wall without destroying the rest of the
countryside; Rocky and Prudence seemed to think every option was terrible;
and Rigby still didn't have much to say.

Finally, they asked Huk to see whether there were any doors around.  He
pulled out his night-door-finding apparatus and quickly pointed out a half
dozen in the mine-top alone.  The group decided they'd try one.  Huk wished
them well, told them he looked forward to seeing them at the market, and send
them on their way.

**Nobody died!**

There was no loot looted.

