---
layout: post
title : RPG Recap: Beyond the Temple of the Abyss, 2012-04-07
date  : 2012-04-08T01:25:27Z
tags  : ["rpg-beyond", "dnd", "rpg"]
---
## Wednesday, the 11th day of the Red Moon, 937

Walled up in the mine-top beneath the Gladwell farm, the party (Rocky, Rigby,
Prudence, Delian, and Tamara) decided to escape through one of the "night
doors" shown to them by Huk the Goblin.  The lined up, placed hands on
shoulders, and were led through the door by Delian.  There was a flash of
light, a pulling sensation, and then the group was somewhere altogether: a
freezing cold room, about 15' in diameter with a 10' wide hole in the middle,
spanned by a net.  Along one wall was a pile of small wooden palettes.
Scattered around another part of the wall was a rough pile of black glass
discs.  A doorway on rails could be spun around the room, and the party played
for a while trying to figure out the relationship between the magic numbers
hovering above it, the buttons, and the graffiti all over the walls.

One thing was for sure:  a note on the wall said that 290 was "Safe Haven," but
the view through the magic doorway looked like anything but.  Other views were
equally forbidding:  an expansive lake of fire, a featureless gray gravel
plain, and so on.  When the room's lighting became red and the ceiling began to
open, the group decided to hasten their exit.

Through the room's other door – a 7" thick steel affair – the group found a
stairwell heading down.  They went a good hundred feet before finding a landing
where a crude shrine had been set up around a large yellow silk wall hanging
featuring the name **HAARG**.  Another hole in the ground led down and Rocky
decided to test its depth by tossing down one of the glass discs.  He was
rewarded by the sound of snarling and roaring from below, which sent the group
running back to the top of the stairs.

While the group was gone, a big yellow cube had fallen from the sky.  It was
about three feet on a side, wrapped in yellow canvas, and attached to a huge
piece of yellow silk.  Everything was stamed with HAARG and a stylized image of
a fist crushing a brain.  Inside the container, the group found [some curious
instructions](https://github.com/rjbs/RPG-Beyond/blob/master/Notes/Airdrop-Instructions.mkdn),
and some even more curious contents.  There were some wooden swords, some
extremely heavy coins, a bunch of food, boxed water, glowing silver blankets, a
container of medical equipment (or so it was assumed) and a bunch of other
equipment of questionable purpose and value.  The "speaking stone," when
activated, began to drone on and on about the horrible fates that would befall
the party, their friends, their families, their souls, and their race in
general.  (This probably applied only to the humans, as it wouldn't speak to
Delian at all.)

With the gear evaluated and redistributed, the group headed back down to
investigate the roaring.  Two landings down, they found a huge sleeping green…
thing.  Rocky decided to sneak by, but the thing was apparently only *mostly*
asleep, and lunged for him as he passed.  Delian tried to send the thing to
*sleep* but his spell had no effect.  Making no headway in his plan to beat the
creature to death, Rocky decided to instead beat on the planks where the thing
was standing.  The wood splintered and broke, and the monster fell out of
sight.

With the threat dealt with, the group headed down to the next level… where the
huge green creature stood, furious and waiting for the party.  The turned tail
and ran back up.  From there, they rained down molotov cocktails, wooden
crates, and even the big steel cage that had been in the monster's lair.  Then
they tied Tamara into a harness made of the silk and goblin ropes and lowered
her down so she could fire arrows into the monster from beyond its reach.

Unfortunately, Tamara had a hard time getting good shots off while dangling and
spinning on the rope.  Even more unfortunately, it grew more difficult once the
furious monster began to pick up the dropped crates and throw them at her.
*Most* unfortunately, he finally picked up the steel cage and threw it right at
Tamara, crushing her against the wall, snapping the silk rope, and sending her
crashing to the ground.  The rest of the group burst in moments later and
Delian responded to the monster's suggestion of parley by throwing a few glass
vials at the thing.  The vials were full of juices extracted from the same
seeds that cost Delian his left hand, and they burst and mixed, burning the
thing horribly.  Unlike its earlier wounds, these did not heal, and the
horrible green monster stayed down.

Rocky chopped its head from its body and shoved it in his pack, just in case it
might come in handy later.

The group finished their descent, finding a few corpses on the way and
collecting the dead men's fur-lined cloaks against the intense cold.  At the
ground level, they weighed their options: head out into a blinding snowstorm,
in the dark, with an unconscious and half-dead cleric; or camp for the night.
They camped, bundling up in their glowing blankets and a semi-self-pitching
tent.  The next morning, after supping on canned soup and crackers, they
opened the heavy steel door and headed into the snow.

### XP

    Delian  : 1366 + 210 = 1636 (Level up at 4000)
    Rocky   :  807 + 210 = 1017 (Level up at 2000)
    Rigby   :  342 +  60 =  402 (Level up at 1200)
    Tamara  :   29 +  70 =   89 (Level up at 1500)
    Prudence:   29 +  91 =  120 (Level up at 2500)


