---
layout: post
title : "RPG Recap: Alar, 2012-02-18"
date  : "2012-02-21T15:23:52Z"
tags  : ["rpg-alar", "mnm", "rpg"]
---
## Year 28 of the 7th Imperator, 8th of Declarations

Stomachs full of rich food and pockets full of (a very small amount of) gold,
the gang retired early and took a well-earned day off to replaced lost gear,
mend armor, and otherwise relax.

The next day, the got back to business early, heading off to the seat of
government to look for dirty deeds needing doing.  They'd hardly left their
neighborhood, though, when they were distracted by the sight of a local
shopkeeper being harassed by a group of terchic thugs.  They stood by and
watched until the terchics wandered off, and then followed the merchant into
his shop to see what was up.

Igrus, the cloth merchant, was being pressed for protection money, like many of
the local merchants.  He didn't mind paying – that's part of doing business in
the city – but he wanted to pay proper *men*, not protomachean abominations.
Ayla expressed her sympathy with that position and said that they'd be happy to
take the protection money, so that it didn't have to go to the terchics.  Igrus
agreed and said that the deal would be sealed as soon as the gang delivered the
news to the terchics.

Everyone headed into the Vorican ghetto, and to the Burning Dog, the
extortionists' favored tavern.  A few hours passed before they showed up, but
they did, and Ayla explained how things were going to be:  the terchics would
stop hassling Igrus, and nobody would get hurt.  The terchic didn't like these
terms, much, and set about making his position clear through pugilism.

As a few dozen locals watched from alleys and windows, the two gangs engaged in
brutal combat in the street.  While Ayla focused on keeping the minds of the
thugs clouded and Helga and Ignatius took down one opponent after another,
Redorus faced the leader in a fierce one-on-one fight.  It was a close thing,
but Redorus scraped through (owing to the intervention of pale-faced Olixitus)
and the terchic's leader did not, finally collapsing in a bloodied heap in
front of the tavern.

Calliope had cowed several of the terchics by wielding her Nexan dagger
(presumably returned by Felix without significant news).  This drew the
attention of a few Nexans in the Dog, one of whom chased Calliope down until
she gave up the dagger.  When *he* picked it up and, blue-skinned, threatened
her, she made tracks in a panic.  Meanwhile, the Nexan's friend pushed Ayla and
Redorus for information on the dagger's origin.  They promised to tell him all
about it… later.  He reminded them that it wouldn't be too hard to find three
bald-headed Voricans, especially if he looked for one as badly beat up as
Redorus.  He told them to go freely and tend to their wounded.

So they did.

