---
layout: post
title : RPG Recap: Alar, 2012-05-26, 2012-08-04, 2012-08-13
date  : 2012-09-01T02:28:39Z
tags  : ["rpg-alar", "mnm", "rpg"]
---
## Year 28 of the 7th Imperator, 13th of Declarations

Having slaughtered just about every living thing near the once-captured villa,
the first task was to search the bodies of the bandits, who ended up proving
fairly broke.  The weird shambling soldiers were left untouched.  Next, the
gang looked around for a bit of plunder.  Although there was some discussion of
looting the villa itself (owner-clients be damned), this was put aside after a
number of expensive-looking items were hauled out of the shambling soldiers'
wagon.  Among the treasures:

* an etched, bejeweled sword
* a bronze torc
* stone carving of the Lion of Agia
* a silver seal stamp, inset with a few gems
* weird black statuette (that seemed to sing quietly)

## Year 28 of the 7th Imperator, 14th of Declarations

After an uneventful night spent at the villa, the gang went back to town.

> MM's note:  I think they took the ox cart, but I'm not sure.  I know there
> was a time when a bribe had to be paid to get a cart into town, but that cart
> was in quite a state.  Surely it would've been a problem to get it in.  Maybe
> I forgot, though.  Sorry, this game was three months ago!

They collected the villa's owners and ferried them back home.  The owner was
willing to skip dickering over the price, which each party remembered
differently, but was a bit put out when Redorus demanded more gold for the job
of moving the corpses away from the house and to a ditch.  He paid anyway.

Back in town, it was time to see how much coin could be gotten for the loot.
Felix was consulted and reported that the stamp could be used to open and
reseal documents without a trace, and that the black figurine was … weird.  The
rest were quite mundane, though valuable.  They were sold off to Calliope's
fence, Bith Bissix, for quite a profit.  The seal and statuette, the gang kept
just in case.

With the sudden windfall, it was time to resupply and enjoy a few days of rest.

## Year 28 of the 7th Imperator, 20th of Declarations

After nearly a week off, loafing (except for Tilton, who kept busy with his
official duties), the group reassembled to look for more mischeif.  Happy with
the results they got from the daemons in the Commons of Knowledge last time,
they headed back and consulted with the job board.  It suggested that they
consider an open ended job: even without finishing the job, they could earn a
gold solidus for each week in which they did some productive work looking for
the lost Fountain of Purity.  They group signed up — what did they have to
lose?

### Research

Felix didn't have any leads to offer, but explained the story of the fountain,
and said that it was as likely to be a legend as to actually exist.

Redorus consulted his friend (and military officer) Cyprias, asking whether he
knew of any interesting hidden places beneath the city.  The group had been
told to look underground and so far their only idea was the sewer — not an
option to which anyone was eager to commit.  Cyprias said that he'd heard tell
of an old underground shrine to some unpleasant power.  The shrine had long ago
been emptied of its cult and converted to a tourist attraction, but after some
sort of grave accident that, too, was closed.  Cyprias wasn't too clear on the
details or the time frame, but it sounded like it had to be decades ago.

Tilton sought the divine council of Olixitus, and received a vision of a dark,
close place.  He stumbled through narrow halls until finding himself in a
great, open chamber — though still pitch black.  Soon, a single point of light
crossed through the air, followed by another, and then another.  The lights
swarmed in a ring, then crashed through the floor.  When Tilton moved to
investigate, he found they'd descended a long, round hole in the ground.  He
peered over the edge… and fell!  As he hit bottom, he awoke with a start:
Brulex had barged in to see what on earth Tilton was doing.

### Scouting

Knowing only that they should be looking somewhere along the interior of the
northern Old Wall, the group begin a long, slow walk along its length, sizing
up possible places to investigate.  At one likely spot, Redorus crept boldly in
to investigate, but only found a few elderly squatters arguing, oblivious to
his intrusion.

Later on, at another likely location, the gang was blocked from entry by the
eccentric old man camped out on the front stoop.  When they tried to pass him
by, he introduced himself as the guide, and collected a few denari to give them
the tour.

The tour proved somewhat rambling and confused, but he gave an account of the
site's history and popularity, pointed out some of its features, and apologized
that the lower level was still closed for repairs.  After some time, the party
left, thanking Sek the guide, and quietly lifting his keys for later use.

### Delving

The gang returned at night and found Sek asleep in front of the entrance.
Calliope attempted to gingerly pass over him, but instead gave him a good
kick in the ribs and stumbled.  No matter: Sek was deeply asleep.  Calliope
opened the door and everyone descended into the shrine.  A few lanterns were
lit as they descended.

They headed directly to the closed second floor, where they found a small room
with that they judged to have once been used for draining the blood from
sacrifice victims.  They declined to investigate it.  Instead, they began a
slow southerly progression, smashing open plaster crypt seals to loot the
bodies within.  They recovered only a few coins and a dried-up scroll, until
they were set upon by a group of skeletons that had been walled up together and
were apparently eager to be free of their long confinement.  Of the four that
clattered into action, one made it past the group and up the stairs, but it was
quickly chased down and destroyed.


