---
layout: post
title : "books I've read recently"
date  : "2012-08-03T03:34:46Z"
tags  : ["book"]
---
I've ended up with a bunch of new books recently.  Gloria gave me quite a nice
stack of them for my birthday.  Her parents gave me an Amazon gift certificate
which was used mostly for books.  Some kind anonymous person gave me a copy of
Red Alert, which I'd wanted to read.  Many of the books have been pretty light
reading, so I've gotten through a few already.  It's been very pleasant!
Mostly I get my reading done when Martha is playing at the park, or while I'm
walking through town, or waiting for the bus, or while I brush my teeth.  I
actually didn't get much reading done at OSCON.  I was busy, and during the
trip home, I was trying to sleep!

Walt recommended [The Automatic
Detective](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0765318342/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0765318342&linkCode=as2&tag=rjbs-20),
a hard-boiled detective story about an indestructable robot and his buddy the
giant talking gorilla.  It was pretty much exactly what I expected, and that
was good.  I'm glad it's not a series, because I wouldn't want seconds, but the
book was a fun read.  It reminded me of my fizzled-out plan to run a ray gun
gothic hard boiled detective RPG set in New Jersey.

I stumbled across [Black Sabbath's Master of
Reality](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0826428991/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0826428991&linkCode=as2&tag=rjbs-20)
when reading the Wikipedia page about [John
Darnielle](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Darnielle) of The Mountain Goats.
I had been reading about him after getting his song No Children stuck in my
head after watching all of season three of Moral Orel on the way to OSCON.  It
was probably the number two thing I talked about too much there, right after Le
Pigeon.  Seriously, that show *really* got good after the first season.

Black Sabbath's Master of Reality is part of a series of books somehow related
to albums.  I don't really know what the deal is.  The book is good, though.
It's the journal of a teenage boy institutionalized for attempting to kill
himself.  For much of the work, he's pleading with the powers that be, who read
his journal, to just *please* give him back his Black Sabbath tapes so he can
be happy.  I really liked the structure of the book and the voice of the
narrator.  It was ambiguous in many places, and I thought it was always
ambiguous in the right way, leaving questions in the air that seemed
interesting but were actually best left unanswered.  The whole thing was made
more interesting when I remembered (from the Wikipedia page) that Darnielle was
a psychiatric nurse.

Last year, Gloria gave me [The
Infection](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004LGS4UW/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B004LGS4UW&linkCode=as2&tag=rjbs-20),
which is more or less a zombie apocalypse novel.  (Hey, it's only five bucks on
Kindle right now!)  I thought it was much better done than other books like it
that I'd read, and I liked that it did some weird stuff with the nature of the
zombie apocalypse.  When it was done, I was glad that there wasn't a sequel,
though.  It seemed best left alone.

Well, this year a sequel came out and I put it right onto my wish list and
Gloria got it for me.  [The Killing
Floor](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1618680757/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1618680757&linkCode=as2&tag=rjbs-20)
was pretty good.  Unfortunately, when it was done I was hoping there'd be no
sequel, but it *really* ends with a setup for a final book, and I get the
impression that no matter what, I won't like the ending.  But, hey, I could be
wrong!  I'll certainly read that last book, anyway.

If I ever run an All Flesh Must Be Eaten-y zombie game, I will totally steal
stuff from these books.

I forget when, but at some point not too long ago I stumbled across [Red
Alert](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003XVYLA8/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B003XVYLA8&linkCode=as2&tag=rjbs-20),
the novel on which Dr. Strangelove was based.  Unlike the movie, the book is
not a satire.  I expected it to be really hamfisted, but in the end I actually
really enjoyed it.  It was interesting to see just how slight the changes
needed to be to take the book from serious to satire.  I was very surprised by
the ending, especially given the things I knew about the author.  I'm sort of
interested in reading his post-nuclear-war book, Commander-1, although it
sounds a little goofy.  Still, for $1 used, I think I'll get around to it.

Finally, I'm now back to the first book that Gloria gave me last month: [The
Forever
War](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B005BVM9YI/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B005BVM9YI&linkCode=as2&tag=rjbs-20).
I'd started reading it, and then moved on to each new book in turn, and have
been reading things in a jumbled order since then.  The Forever War was
recommended by Bryan after my lukewarm reaction to Old Man's War.  So far, I
think it's better, but it keeps reminding me of that book, which isn't helping
it very much.  Still, I *am* enjoying it.  (I enjoyed Old Man's War, too.)  I'm
still only a quarter of the way through it, too, and I'm looking forward to
getting to the middle.

After that, I've got a pile of stuff queued up, and I'm excited about all of
it.  Tonight, though, I mostly worked through my Instapaper backlog.  Man,
Instapaper has been a huge help in reading articles I would've otherwised
skipped.  I am glad to pay for it.

Now it's time to go to bed... maybe after one more chapter.

