---
layout: post
title : "RPG Recap: Beyond the Temple of the Abyss, 2012-02-11"
date  : "2012-02-12T16:43:18Z"
tags  : ["rpg-beyond", "dnd", "rpg"]
---
## Saturday, the 7th day of the Red Moon, 937

Back from Drake's Rest, the group was read to get back to the Gladwell place
and undeground.  Jared and Derick parted ways with the group to secret the coin
from the sale of the font.  Jared would lated catch up with the party, but
Derick didn't make it.  He had some important drinking to do.

Before heading across the river, the party decided it would be a good idea to
get a dwarf to come along.  It was easy to decide who to ask: Torben was the
only dwarf around, and after some convincing that there'd be plenty of treasure
(of which he'd get a favorable share), he agreed to come along, and brought his
halfling friend Mero the Deadly, to whom nobody seemed to give a second
thought.  Worried about leftover toxic gasses, Lyweylln also bought a canary
and tied it to his wrist with a piece of twine – the last bird cage in town had
just been bought the day before.

Torben had heard some scuttlebutt about Alp the Acolyte socking old Agbert
Gladwell, and pressed Alp for an explanation.  Alp explained by noting that
there was a tunnel leading from the chapel down into the dungeons.  When
Torben, nonplussed, pushed for more information, Alp clambered down the tunnel.
After a few minutes of puzzled silence, the rest of the (huge) group followed:
Torben, Mero, Lyweylln, Delian, and the three hirelings: Rocky, Rigby, and
Sadie.

The group headed southwest through the ruined kitchen and down the tunnel into
the river cavern.  Everything seemed to be as they'd left it – apart from the
hallucinogenic blue smoke, which had cleared the area.  The group surveyed the
area, but found nothing much of interest.  Torben grumbled, wondering when they
were going to get to the mines.  There were mines, right?  All he could see
were natural caverns, pathetic burrows, and some probably-human stonework.

Everyone kept on following Alp, who lead the first group up to the complex
junction.   Sadie (et al.) explored the unmarked passage and determined it to
be a dead end.  From there, the whole party trooped up to the big room with the
big round table.  Torben asked about the the boarded up passage at the east
end, but Alp and Delian said that while they'd been through there, neither
could remember [what they'd seen
there](http://rjbs.manxome.org/rubric/entry/1928).

Lyweylln decided it was worth investigating, and he asked Rocky to axe down the
barricade, which Rocky did happily.  Delian, Lyweylln, Rocky, Sadie, and Mero
made their way down the walkway behind it.  Three zombies were loitering at the
end of the hall, and things got complicated.  Delian's *Protection from Evil*
probably saved his life, but not enough that he wasn't badly hurt, so he shoved
his way out of the melee and back to safety with Torben, Rigby, and Alp.

Rocky felled one undead man-eater while Sadie fought with another one, but she
was quickly overpowered and laid low.  Lyweylln and Mero loosed a series of
arrows at the creatures.  Over and over, Mero hit his marks.  Lyweylln, though
entirely ineffective, didn't give up.

Meanwhile, Jared had arrived and was looking around the caverns for the rest of
the group.  Hearing the dim sounds of struggle from up above, he made his way
up the tunnels toward the table room.  He ran into Alp, and after some
respectful punches of greeting, they ran into the melee.  By the power of
Ibrim, the undead were cowed and send scurrying back down their hole.

After a bit of standard looting of Sadie's body, along with the reading of
hurried last rites, Alp and Jared declared their intention to pursue the
shuffling corpses down the hole.  Down they went, followed by the rest of the
group.  Another handful of zombies waited in the room below, glaring at the
clerics from the shadows.  Alp brandished his silver star, but his faith
wavered, and the undead were enraged rather then repelled.

The struggle became ferocious: Alp, Jared, and Lyweylln were tackled by zombies
while Mero landed shot after shot.  Too much damage had already been done,
though.  Lyweylln managed to drive his dagger through his attacker's palate and
kill him, but Alp and Jared were not so lucky, and were sent to meet their
master.  With *their* bodies looted, the party was left deciding which way to
go:  down the nearly-vertical drop at the east end, or back up and out of the
zombie pit.  (Well, except for Torben, who was more left wondering whether he'd
ever figure out what happened between Alp and Agbert.)

### In Memoriam

R.I.P., Jared the Acolyte  
R.I.P., Alp the Acolyte  
R.I.P., Sadie the Soldier (hireling)

