---
layout: post
title : "essential (so far) iPad software"
date  : "2012-04-13T21:19:57Z"
tags  : ["software"]
---
I just got my first receipt for iPad software that I bought since buying my
iPad:

|:-------------------------------------------|:-------------------------|:----|:------|
| GoodReader for iPad, v3.14.2 (4+)          | Good.iWare Ltd.          | App | $4.99 |
| Comic Zeal Comic Reader, v5.0.36 (12+)     | Bitolithic Pty Ltd       | App | $4.99 |
| Articles for iPad, v1.5 (17+)              | Sophiestication Software | App | $4.99 |
| Tweetbot ― A Twitter Client with Personal… | Tapbots                  | App | $2.99 |
| Air Display, v1.6 (4+)                     | Avatron Software, Inc.   | App | $9.99 |

Then there are a few free apps that didn't show up:

* Everything Butt Art
* Adobe Reader

In addition to those, I've been using these apps that already had available
from iPhone use:

* It's Playing
* Kindle
* Instapaper
* Dropbox
* Night Stand
* Amazon

I've got a bunch of other stuff installed, but I haven't really used it, so I'm
not going to bother listing it.

I got my iPad to replace my HP TouchPad and my Kindle DX.  I used my Kindle DX
for reading technical books, children's books, Instapaper, and very
occasionally other content.  I used my HPTP for reading RPG books, comic books,
Instapaper, and very occasionally other content.  So, I needed to get iOS
applications to replace these functions.

[**GoodReader**](http://www.goodiware.com/goodreader.html) is, I was told by
nearly everyone I know, the best PDF reader around.  Since I wanted this tablet
in large part to read PDFs, I did not balk at dropping five bucks on the
reader.  I'm glad: GoodReader is pretty fantastic.

I don't need any of the annotations.  I just need something good at listing
files and displaying them.  On the HPTP, I wrote a little rsync-ish script to
load books into a directory when I mounted the tablet as a USB mass storage
device.  It was fine.  The only PDF reader to speak of was Adobe Reader, and it
was lousy.  It was fine for reading a PDF in order, page by page, but it
was slow and its interface for moving to arbitrary pages was a joke.  Also,
when you wanted to open a PDF, you could let it scan your whole storage for PDF
files, which it would display in a single flat list.  Argh!  Instead of doing
that, I used the Gemini File Manager to browse my file tree, then pick PDF
files to open in Adobe Reader.  It was pretty lame.

I saw that GoodReader had Dropbox sync, so I pointed it at my Dropbox.  I told
it I wanted to sync my RPG books folder and it got to work.  A while later, my
huge pile of PDFs was sitting on my tablet, still organized by folder.  Then I
synchronized my "articles to read" folder.  I read a few and deleted them from
my tablet, then synchronized the deletions back to Dropbox.  *Awesome!*

Sadly, GoodReader uses Apple's (very fast) PDF renderer, which has some
[very unfortunate bugs](http://skitch.com/rjbs/rax5y/text-bug-2) that can cause
text to appear missing or mangled.  In my experience, it mostly affects OCR
scanned files of now-unavailable texts, but even some modern documents, like
the [Pathfinder RPG
PDF](http://paizo.com/paizo/messageboards/paizoPublishing/general/pathfinderPdfsFonts&page=1&source=rss)
are affected.  When I want to read these on my laptop, I fall back to using
Adobe Reader, which is slow and ugly, but *works*.  This bug is one of the
reasons I had long hesitated to use an iPad to read PDFs.  Yesterday, though, I
learned that Adobe makes a PDF reader using their own engine, which renders
these files properly!  I'll still be using GoodReader for most files, but
within GoodReader, if I see a file is rendering poorly, I can click "open in
Adobe Reader" and read it there.

The other thing I wanted to read on the iPad, which I couldn't possibly read on
my other ereaders, was comics.  Reading comic books on my TouchPad was a
revelation.  I'd read them, before, on my laptop, and it was tolerable.  On the
TouchPad, they looked gorgeous.  They looked, I though, even better than on the
page.  There was no problem with the spine obscuring any pages.  The image
looked bright (because, hey, backlight!) and crisp.  Even a bit smaller than on
paper, I was sold.  I felt pretty unlikely to go back to buying paper comics.

I also felt like I wasn't going to see anything much better than ComicShelf HD,
which I was using on my HPTP.  It did just what I wanted:  it let me load a
bunch of comics, in folders, and then read them.  What else would there be?  I
looked around for the most-liked iPad app and found [**Comic
Zeal**](http://www.comiczealapp.com/).  At first, I was frustrated that its
Dropbox integration was worthless, compared to GoodReader's.  It only supported
"Open in…" and not syncing.  Loading comics by hand required going through
iTunes, and then screwing around in the app to get things into folders.

Eventually, though, I found some useful help articles.  It would be easy to do
what I wanted:  I had to turn off "automatic series," which guessed (badly) at
series names from filenames.  Then I'd make make new collections and focus on
them while importing to get the files into the right place.  It worked really
well, and there are a metric ton of other organization features that I'd love
to use... if Comic Zeal was a Mac app.  As it is, I can't load all my comics
onto my iPad, and don't plan to, but it'd be great if I could organize them
with something this nice on my laptop, then sync them to my iPad in hunks for
reading.

I use [Articles for
iPhone](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/articles/id317065689?mt=8) daily.  I
probably use it more than I use Safari.  I was surprised to see that it didn't
show up to download for iPad, because [Articles for
iPad](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/articles-for-ipad/id364881979?mt=8) is a
distinct app.  I'd have to pay another $5.  I was annoyed for about fifteen
seconds, then I paid the $5.  I had to admit:  I use that program so much, the
author deserves another five bucks anyway.  The iPad version is just as nice as
the iPhone version so far, though I've hardly used it as often, and I doubt I
*will* use it as often.  Still, it's nice to have on hand.

I installed Twitter's official app, at first, just to avoid paying for a
Twitter app, but I hated it.  It looked bad, was annoying to use, and even with
all its Notification Center access turned off, I kept getting notifications.  I
deleted it and installed
[**TweetBot**](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/tweetbot-twitter-client-personality/id498801050?mt=8).
I had wanted to install Twittelator, which I like on iPhone, but recently its
had some weird things going on with pricing and features that I didn't like, so
I stuck to TweetBot, which seemed very nice, too.  It's so nice I might switch
to using it on iPhone, too.  In fact, I think I'll put replace Twittelator in
my iPhone dock right now!

The next iPad app I picked up was
[**AirDisplay**](http://avatron.com/apps/air-display), which lets me use my
iPad as an external high-DPI display for my Mac.  I had no idea what I'd use it
for, but [Jesse](http://www.fsck.com/) said I'd like it, so I ran with it.  I
still don't know what I'm going to do with it, but it does seem pretty darn
cool.  It also makes me with that I could full-screen one OS X program without
rendering the second display useless.  Argh!

[**Everything Butt Art**](http://everythingbuttart.com/) is a cute drawing app
that [David Golden](http://www.dagolden.com/) showed me at the QA Hackathon.
Along with normal drawing tools, there are trace-the-lines drawings that I
thought Martha would enjoy, and the whole thing is cute.  It's also $0, which
made it easy to justify.

The iPad Kindle app is very nice.  I'm not sure what else to say about it.  It
does everything I expected and looks great doing it.

I also really like the iPad [Instapaper](http://www.instapaper.com/) client,
which has a very simple interface and has already let me make some progress on
my backed-up reading queue.  The high-density display really paid off here.
The text is gorgeous, and it really does make a difference in the reading
experience.

Some of the applications that Apple installs by default (and, incidentally,
doesn't let you delete) on the iPhone aren't present on the iPad.  There's no
"Clock" application and no "Weather" application, both of which seemed like
they'd be useful to have around.  I installed [Night Stand
HD](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/night-stand-hd-alarm-clock/id364657045?mt=8)
and [Magical Weather](http://sophiestication.com/magicalweather/) to fill in
for Apple's apps.  I'd already been using Night Stand on my phone, so it cost
nothing, and Magical Weather seemed like it would be a nice thing to leave
displaying while I sit at work.  It looks like I'd like it even more if I could
have it display some other data as it sits there, like a notification center,
but I'm not picky.  It looks great already.

Right now, I've got everything I liked about the Kindle DX and HPTP replicated
on the iPad, and in every case the replacement software is much better.  I'm
not sure what I might use beyond these, but even if it's nothing, I think I'm
happy.  I should note that I also installed
[WriteRoom](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/writeroom/id288751446?mt=8) but I
don't see myself using it much.  The iPad keyboard is a thing that I can suffer
through, but I hate typing on it.  I ordered a cheap knock-off of Apple's
camera connection kit so that I can plug in a USB keyboard, though, and that
may change things.  Time will tell.

