---
layout: post
title : Office Mode DEFCON
date  : 2013-11-08T03:29:59Z
tags  : ["games"]
---
I picked up [DEFCON](http://store.steampowered.com/app/1520/) a few months ago
on Steam.  It's a game inspired by the "big nuclear war boards" we saw in
movies like Dr. Strangelove or, closer to the mark, WarGames.  Each player
controls a section of the world.  The game starts with a few very short bits of
placing units and quickly turns into a shooting war.  Players launch fighters,
deploy fleets, and eventually sound out bombers, subs, and ICBMs.  The game
looks gorgeous.

I was intrigued by "office mode."  In this mode, the game is time limited, runs
in a window, and stays mostly out of your way.  My understanding was that it
would be a good fit to run while working my day job.  I'd just check in on it
once in a while to issue new orders, but mostly I could ignore it.  After all,
a lot of time was sure to be missiles flying through the air.  I got in touch
with some friends to organize a game, and Florian Ragwitz and I gave it a shot
today.

Unfortunately, it wasn't quite what I expected.  The first few phases of the
game were quite rapid-fire and required a good bit of my brain for about twenty
minutes.  After that, things calmed down, but not enough.  It was not a great
background activity.  I couldn't, for example, check in for five minutes at a
time between pomodori.

On the other hand, it *was* fun.  I guess I should spend a bit more time
fighting AIs, though, because Florian utterly destroyed me.  I think I had one
weapon hit a target, doing a fair bit of damage to Naples.  Meanwhile, he
destroyed about half the population of the USSR.  (Florian was playing as
Europe, and I was the USSR.  Strangely, Europe, not the USSR, controls Kiev,
Warsaw, and Dnipropetrovsk.)

