---
layout: post
title : spending somebody else's moneyâ€¦ for Perl!
date  : 2013-02-18T03:21:13Z
tags  : ["perl"]
---
Over the past few years, the Perl Foundation received a bunch of nice big
donations to be used for Perl 5.  Some of this money has been used to pay for
work by Dave Mitchell and Nicholas Clark to work on difficult problems in the
Perl 5 core.  This has, in my opinion, been money well spent.  Dave and Nick
know the Perl core very well, and they've worked seemingly tirelessly to make
progress where progress is not easy, and to fix things that nobody else wanted
to touch.

There are problems with this kind of spending, though.  One of them is that
Dave and Nick are human resources, and not permanent assets.  We can keep
spending money on them for as long as they let us, and it will almost certainly
keep being a good investment, but it can't go on forever.  Another problem is
that the rate at which we can fund Nick and Dave is limited, and we're not
going to burn through all the money any time soon doing that.

Do we want to be in a rush to spend all that money?  Well, maybe not a big
rush, and maybe not all of it, but I think it sends a bad sign to donators when
we don't spend the money we're given.  Specifically, it sends the sign that we
don't have any need for money, because we're not even really using what we
have.

Then again, maybe we don't.  Maybe the only things we should be spending money
on are the YAPCs, legal issues, and some service hosting.  There's an argument
to be made for that, too.  It's been said that when TPF spends money on some
coding, it indicates that there are multiple strata of people in the Perl
community: those whose work is blessed by "the powers that be" and those whose
work isn't.  Does this create a real disincentive for "outsiders" to
contribute?

It's a big complicated question, all of which boils down to something like,
"What ought TPF to do?"  Maybe the answer is, "just what it's doing now."  If
that's the case, though, I want to feel convinced of it.  Right now, I'm not.

I think I'm going to write down a bunch of ideas for how TPF could spend money
*other* than conferences and paying for Dave and Nick.  Implicit or explicit in
these ideas will be my internal list of problems that seem worth solving but
without obvious solutions that can be carried out with just some free time and
good intentions.

