---
layout: post
title : "Notes from YAPC in Austin"
date  : "2013-07-01T14:34:59Z"
tags  : ["perl", "yapc"]
---
*I'm posting this much later than I started writing it.  I thought I'd get back
to it and fill in details, but that basically didn't happen.  So it goes.*

This year's YAPC was in Austin.  A lot of people complained about the weather,
but it was pretty much the same weather we had at home when I left home, so I
wasn't bothered.  This was good planning on the part of the YAPC organizers,
and I thank them for thinking of me.

I'm just going to toss down notes on what I did, for future memory.

I landed on Sunday, having flown with Peter Martini and Andrew Rodland.  Walt
picked us up at the airport and we went to
[Rudy's](http://www.yelp.com/biz/rudys-country-store-and-bar-b-q-austin-2) for
barbecue… but first we had to check in.  I was worried, because it was after
19:00, and it sounded like nobody would be at the B&B to let me in.  I called,
and nobody was there.  I wandered around the back of the building and found a
note for me.  It told me where to find my key and how to get in.  "…and help
yourself to the soda, lemonade, and wine in the fridge."  Nice.  I really liked
the place, [The Star of Texas Inn](http://staroftexasinn.com/), and would stay
there again, if the opportunity arose.

Rudy's was fantastic.  I had some very, very good brisket and declared that I
needed nothing else.  I tried some of the turkey and pork, too, though, and
they were superb.  The jalapeño sausage, I could take or leave.  The sides were
great, too: creamed corn, new potatoes, potato salad.  The bread was a
distraction.  I also had a Shiner bock, because I was in Texas.

From Rudy's we went to the DoubleTree, where lots of other attendees were
staying, and I said hello to a ton of people.  Eventually, though, Peter and I
headed back to our respective lodgings.  I worked a little on my slides and a
lot on notes for the RPG that I planned to run on Thursday night.

Monday morning, I caught up with Thomas Sibley, who was staying at the same
B&B.  We had breakfast (which was fine) and headed to the conference.  I
attended:

* Mark Keating's history of Perl, which was good, except that he seems to think that my name is "Ricky."  I think he's been talking to my mom too much.
* Sterling Hanenkamp's telecommuting panel discussion, on which I was a panel member.  I think it went pretty well, although I wonder whether we needed an aggressive interviewer to push us harder.
* John Anderson's automation talk, which was good, but to which I must admit I payed limited attention.  I forget what I got distracted by, but something.

For lunch, we had a "p5p meetup" at the Red River Diner.  The food was fine and
the company was good, but we ended up quite a few more people than I'd
expected, and it sort of became a generic conference lunch.  Jim Keenan
presented me with a copy of the Vertigo score, which is sitting on my desk
waiting for a good 45 minute slot in which to be played.  Sawyer was keen to
get anything with blueberries in it.  "We don't *have* these things in Israel,
man!  They're incredible!"  I was tickled.

In the next slot, I spent most of my time in the hallway, talking to people who
were interested in the state of Perl 5 development.  The big questions that
arose in these discussions, and similar ones later in the week:  how can Perl 5
get more regular core contributors, and how can interested people start
helping?  For the second one, I need to boil things down to a really tight
answer with a memorable URL.  I'm not sure it will help, but it might.

I attended the MoarVM talk, which was interesting, but which I can't judge very
well.  At any rate, I'm excited to see the Rakudo team doing more cool stuff.
After that, Larry spoke.  It was good, and I was glad to be there.  The
lightning talks were good, and then there was the "VIP mixer."  That's
basically free drinks and an opportunity to meet all kinds of new people.  I
did!  I would've met more, but it was *loud* in there.  If we could've done it
outside, I bet I would've stayed much longer, but I was losing my voice within
the hour.

After that, we were off to [Torchy's
Tacos](http://www.yelp.com/biz/torchys-tacos-austin-4).  Walt had previously
described their tacos as "a revelation."  They were definitely the two best
tacos I'd ever eaten.  Especially amazing was the "tuk tuk," a Thai-inspired
delicacy.  I went back to Torchy's twice more before I left town, and regret
nothing.  I'll definitely go again, if I go back to Austin.

Tuesday, in fact, Walt, Tom and I headed to Torchy's for breakfast.  It was a
good plan.  We got to the venue in time for Walt to give his talk about OS X
hackery (phew!).  I saw a live demo of Tim Bunce's memory profiler, which is
clearly something I'll be using in the future, though it looks like it will
take significant wisdom to apply effectively.  Before lunch, I took in Mark
Allen's talk on DTrace, which provided more incentive for me to finally learn
how to use the thing.  I've been working on [the giant DTrace
book](http://www.dtracebook.com/index.php/Main_Page) since YAPC.  I also
managed, during the talk, to predict and find [a stupid little
bug](https://rt.perl.org/rt3/Ticket/Display.html?id=118305) when DTrace and
lexical subs interact.

For lunch, Walt suggested we eat [Bacon](http://www.yelp.com/biz/bacon-austin),
so we did.  Peter, Walt, and I piled into his rental and got over there.  The
Cobb salad was very good, the bacon fries okay.  I was very glad to have a
selection of local beers beyond Shiner and Austin Amber, and the guy behind the
counter suggested [Fire
Eagle](http://beeradvocate.com/beer/profile/25667/69408), which I enjoyed.

After lunch, Reini's talk on p2, Karen's TPF update, Matt S Trout on
automation, and then Stevan's talk about the state of Perl.  Despite calling
Perl "the Detroit of scripting languages," it made no mention of RoboCop, nor
did it liken anyone to The Old Man, Clarence Boddicker, or Dick Jones.  It was
a good talk, but I was understandably let down.

For dinner, the whole conference (or much of it) headed out for barbecue.  The
barbecue was made by The Salt Lick, and while good, it did not beat out Rudy's.
Dinner ended with "game night," and I ran a hacked up D&D game, set in what I'm
calling Trekpocalypse.  More on that in another entry.

Wednesday started with my last trip to Torchy's.  It was good.

We took our time getting to the conference, and then I killed a bunch of time
in the hallway track.  The first talk I got to was Sawyer's talk about async.
The talk was good, and one to learn from, as a speaker.  I think he did a great
job keeping people involved, especially with a hunk of "spot the error" slides
in the middle.  By the end, he had built a program that did a bunch of parallel
queries against IMDB, and then showed results to the audience.  He spent a fair
hunk of time just commenting on the character actors he dug up, and this went
over well, as he'd paid for the digression with strong technical content until
that point.  I was pleased!

After that, I was obliged to go to Andrew Rodland's talk on StatsD, as I knew
that I needed to start using it at work.  It was useful, and I've been graphing
more stuff, now, which has also been cool.  In fact, this talk led to me
finding [a bug in py-statsd](https://github.com/sivy/py-statsd/issues/65),
which has now been fixed.  Woo!

After that, it was time for me to give [my talk on perl
5](http://www.yapcna.org/yn2013/talk/4608).  I think it went quite well!  I had
been worried about it, since I was editing and reworking it until the last day.
I was happy with it, though, and will not be making major changes before giving
it at OSCON.  I look forward to seeing the attendee feedback, once it's in.
After that, it was a lot of post-talk chat in the hallways, then Peter
Martini's talk about his work on adding subroutine signatures to Perl.
Everyone was excited, and rightly so.

After that, Matt S Trout and the lightning talks brought things to a
conclusion, and I spent some time saying goodbyes.  With everyone heading his
or her own way, Tom Sibley and I decided that our way was "toward cocktails."
I'd identified a place on Yelp that looked good, the [Firehouse
Lounge](http://www.yelp.com/biz/firehouse-lounge-austin-3) and we headed down.
The drinks were okay, but it was *amazingly* loud, so we headed out.  Actually,
I should qualify the drink review:  my drink was pretty good.  I ordered the
drinks for both of us, yelling the order across the bar, and I ordered the
wrong thing for Tom, forgetting which one he'd settled on.  I was mortified.
Tom graciously let it go.

We hadn't eaten yet, and we were still hoping for some more drinks, so I
consulted Yelp and it suggested [Bar
Congress](http://www.yelp.com/biz/bar-congress-austin), which was probably the
best food and drink advice I've ever gotten from a website.  I wrote [a
review](http://www.yelp.com/biz/bar-congress-austin#hrid:RMFe4Sp4MZqpYm9ROWXqNQ)
which I won't repeat here, but: I would go there again in a heartbeat.  If I
get back to Austin, for some reason, I will make a point of getting there.

After dinner, we headed back to the inn and I turned in.  I'd have to get up
early for my flight, so I packed and went right to sleep.  In the morning, I
used the "Catch a Cab in Austin" iOS app that people at YAPC had been talking
about.  It worked, and I got to the airport with plenty of time, and my flights
home were uneventful.  As always, I'd had a great time, but I was ready to get
home to my family.

Next year's YAPC::NA will be in Orlando, and although it won't be easy to be as
good as this year's, I'm pretty sure it will do just fine.

