---
layout: post
title : being a polyglot programmer (barely)
date  : 2013-08-01T02:03:11Z
tags  : ["programming"]
---
I like learning new programming languages.  Unfortunately, I rarely make the
time to get any good at them.  I'm hoping to figure out how to force myself to
write something non-trivial in something at least relatively unlike what I do
all day.

I did some hacking on a [Python implementation of
statsd](https://github.com/sivy/py-statsd), and I started on a tool to build
[Z-machine](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z-machine) programs in Perl 6.  I took
an online course in Scala and got this:

<center><a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/9413234348/" title="I know Scala! by
rjbs, on Flickr"><img
src="http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3711/9413234348_d0f2f0e267_z.jpg"
width="640" height="628" alt="I know Scala!"></a></center>

That was fun, and I did write some things more complex that I might have
written if I was working through a book.  Speaking of working through books, I
read a bunch of [Introducing
Erlang](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920025818.do) and [Erlang
Programming](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596518189.do), and of
[Haskell: the Craft of
FP](http://www.amazon.com/Haskell-Functional-Programming-International-Computer/dp/0201882957).
Now I'm back to working through [Starting
Forth](http://www.forth.com/starting-forth/) — thankfully I have a print
edition, as the web one is dreadful.  I *really* enjoyed [Programming in
Prolog](http://www.amazon.com/Programming-Prolog-Using-Standard-ebook/dp/B000PY4H32),
too, and hope to someday get around to The Craft of Prolog.  There are a number
of other languages or books I could mention, but it all comes down to the same
thing:  I'm very good at dabbling, but I've found it very challenging to become
proficient at foreign languages because I've found no motivation in the form of
code I want to write.  Or, more specifically, code that I want to write, but
that I can't write faster in Perl, or where I don't mind suffering getting it
done more laboriously.

What I need to do is look for existing programs I like, and want to hack on,
and then do so.  I think it will probably be really painful, but worth it.

What I *wish* I could do is become good friends with somebody expert in these
languages, interested in helping me learn, possibly while hanging out over
chips and salsa.  Actually, it seems to turn out that part of the reason I'm
not getting as much Erlang programming as I'd like is the same reason I'm not
playing as much D&D as I like.  Making friends isn't so hard, but finding
friends with the exact set of skills and interests you hope they'll have can be
a pretty tough challenge!

