---
layout: post
title : "Books to strand your kids in"
date  : "2014-07-29T22:33:54Z"
tags  : ["rpg"]
---
I made a vague offer to run an RPG for some of the kids in my family's younger
generation, and have yet to follow through.  I have no doubt that I could just
wing a simple D&D adventure and we'd have fun.  I will do that sometime.  I
should set a date.

I have another idea, though.

My plan is to run a game of [Fate](http://www.evilhat.com/home/fae/).  The
player characters will be winners of the lottery (think "draft," not "numbers
racket"), conscripted into service troubleshooting for the Great Library.  The
Great Library's troubleshooters are in many ways ripped off of the Jurisfiction
group in the [Thursday Next
books](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lost_in_a_Good_Book).  If that doesn't
help:  they are fictional characters, living in a world populated by other
fictional characters.  The Great Library is an imaginary place where every
revision of a book is shelved, and all of its characters are free to
intermingle.  The specifics of how all this works can be hand-waved.  I may
obsess over it at length, but I know the group of grade schoolers at the table
will not get too nit-picky about everything… at least not at first, anyway.

Every character in the game will be a fictional character.  The player
characters, for example, will have a boss who is in charge of their
assignments.  This will probably be Albus Dumbledore.  One early assignment may
be to find out who has stolen the treasure from Long John Silver's chest and
reburied it, thus threatening the integrity of the story.  The thief may end up
being Sir Harry Flashman.  And so on.

The player characters will also be fictional characters, but the kids don't get
off *that* easy.  They don't get to pick Percy Jackson, Laura Ingalls, Jem, and
Green Lantern (and yes, those are my predictions for the choices if they
*could*).  Instead, their character sheet will have a slot for the name of the
book from which they spring, and maybe the name of the antagonist (or
protagonist, if one cleverly asks to play the bad guy).

Apart from seeming just generally fun, this should be a way I can introduce
some worthwhile stories or characters to the kids.  They can help Sherlock
solve a case, rescue a marooned Huck Finn, or deal with a reprogrammed [Chip
Carson](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_Quite_Human).  It should also be fun
to play with genre-mixing, for both me and the kids.

What I need to do next is compile a list of adventure plots, or even just
characters and books that would be fun to use — both ones that the kids know
and don't know.  Suggestions welcome!

