---
layout: post
title : "I went to !!con!!"
date  : "2014-05-23T15:15:23Z"
---
Months ago, [Mark Jason Dominus](http://blog.plover.com/) said to me, "Hey, I
heard about a conference in New York that's going to just be two days of
[lightning talks](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightning_talk)!"  I thought it
sounded cool and promptly forgot about it.  As it grew closer, though, I
realized that I'd be able to go, and it sounded pretty fun.  Tickets were free,
but only about 30 were open to the public.  I was very lucky to get one in the
first pass.  Almost everyone I met at the conference had gotten theirs through
the wait list.

(Actually, it wasn't just luck.  I felt like a bit of a jerk by interrupting a
movie night with Gloria to try and buy the ticket right at 20:00, but it only
took about a minute, thankfully.  I later learned that all the tickets sold in
about that one minute.  Yow!)

The conference was [!!Con](http://bangbangcon.com/), aka Bangbangcon, and talks
were meant to address "what excites us about programming."  I thought this was
a good topic, and the speakers did a good job sticking to the stuff that
excited them, which meant we had a lot of excited speakers, and that's a good
thing.  The topics ranged broadly, from the history of computing to interesting
instructions on Intel CPUs to computer-identified accidental poetry.

The best part of the conference, generally speaking, was the speakers'
excitement about their topics.  In many cases, the topics were not particularly
new to me, but it was fun to see how different speakers' excitement would
manifest in their talks.  I did make a to-do list of things to try or
investigate after the conference, and I hope I follow through with the items on
it.  First up is probably a nice simple one:  implement my own LZ77.  From
there, maybe I'll go on to the next few algorithms in that family.

The talks were all transcribed.  At first, like many other attendees, I thought
that there was some very good speech-to-text software being used.  Later, I
learned that [Mirabai Knight](http://stenoknight.com/) was serving as our
stenographer.  I've often wondered about stenography, and Mirabai was happy to
answer all my questions and to let me peck at the keys on her stenotype.  "How
much does this machine cost?" I asked, and she told me that while *her*
stenotype ran several grand, she had a project for [open source
stenography](http://stenoknight.com/wiki/Getting_Started) using commodity
hardware.  That went on the to-do list, too.

The most difficult part of the conference, for me, was socializing.  Out of the
hundred-odd attendees, I knew one — Mark — who was only there on the second
day.  I found it difficult to strike up conversations with a bunch of complete
strangers, although I did try.  In fact, I had a number of nice conversations,
but it was difficult and uncomfortable to get started.  I'm not sure whether
there's anything to be done about that, but it didn't help that it seemed like
half of the conference attendees knew each other already.

This experience really made me think again about YAPC and other conferences
that I attend where I already know half the attendees and, even if I don't, am
in a privileged position by virtue of my position within the community.
Remember, fellow conference veterans: go talk to the new people and make them
feel welcome.  It's important.

It also reminded me of something of which I'm already quite aware:  despite
futzing about in other languages and with other tools, almost all the "rep"
that I have is within the Perl community.  This seems silly.  I feel like I
could make a lot more friends and contacts by just spending a little more
effort interacting with the other projects that I am already touching.

The best meal of the conference was at S'Mac: their Parisienne macaroni and
cheese, made with brie, roasted figs, roasted shiitakes, and rosemary.  I ate
too much of it, but only because it was great.  Momofuku milk bar, where I went
later, was a big disappointment.  Both of these were a "group dinner," which
was very nice.  I think it's easier to start talking to a bunch of new people
when the parameters of interaction are pretty well defined.  There were six of
us.  I think I was the only person in the group who didn't already know
everyone else, but it was just fine.

If there's a !!Con in the next year or two, I'll try to go again.  I'll
probably submit a talk, next time, too.

