---
layout: post
title : RPG Recap: Beyond the Temple of the Abyss, 2014-09
date  : 2014-10-01T01:44:03Z
tags  : ["rpg-beyond", "dnd", "rpg"]
---
## Monday, 29th day of the Leafy Moon, 937

Monday morning, the party arrived at the temple to take watch and they didn't
like what they found.  The usually boring and unremarkable ruin was overrun
with cats.  The guards awaiting relief were all on edge and eager to get gone.
They argued amongst themselves about whether they'd actually seen or heard
anything "down there," but clearly they'd had a worse time of things than
usual.

Once they were gone, the party was agreed:  there was no way that they were
going down into the dungeons.  They'd just lie about having done so.

This wasn't quite a solution, though!  Captain Epstien had said he'd be sending
an inspector to look into the problem of the missing mystical seals (which the
party had stolen and tried to fence just earlier in the week).  They decided to
solve things more permanently by collapsing the dungeon entrance down into the
dungeon.  ("What about Drip [the guy who lives in the dungeon]?" asked one
party member.  "Yeah?  What *about* him?" replied another.  That ended *that*
conversation.)

There was agreement on the best way to demolish the entrance: call in the
goblins.  After first scheduling their raid on the vampire's lair (for
Saturday), they explained what they needed, and the goblins sent out a bomber.
He sent the party away from the building and with good old goblin know-how,
brought much of the foundation crumbling down into a heap atop the old stairway
down.

The party returned to town to report the mysterious and unexpected collapse of
the ruins.  "It's just a good thing we weren't any deeper down when the
rumbling started!"

Epstien was not entirely convinced.  "Tell you what," he said, "you go back
there and tomorrow I'll send over … The Dwarf."

## Tuesday, 30th day of the Leafy Moon, 937

Tuesday morning, the dwarf showed up in a dune buggy, none to pleased to be
dealing with this situation or the riff raff on the scene.  He got the party's
story and headed to the site to scope things out.  As he did so, the cats grew
more anxious, circling and hissing, until one grew bolder and attacked him.  He
tore the cat from his face, threw it into the weeds, and shot it with a small
pistol produced from inside his jumpsuit.  This marked the end of his
inspection, and he asked the party whether they'd like to revise their story.

They declined, and he explained that he was going to have to tell Epstien what
happened, and that the party should probably get in front of the story, if they
wanted to save their credibility.

"Well," they waffled, "okay.  We weren't actually inside.  We were nearby.
And we didn't want to get in trouble.  But we definitely had no idea what might
have happened."

The dwarf shrugged and was on his way.

"Huh."  Dera was surprised.  "I was all but sure we were just gonna kill that
guy."  Somebody wondered whether Knash's absence was related to the dwarf's
unmolested exit.

After some further discussion, the gang decided to hunt the dwarf down … and
talk to him.  They mounted up and sped off toward Teak's Bottom, where some
grizzled ex-adventurer in town said they might find him.  In fact, they found
him at Bridgend, halfway to Teak's Bottom, and got him to pull over and chat.

"Okay," they lied, "we decided we should tell you the new, revised version of
our story."

The dwarf was tired of it.  "You're in league with goblins and had one of them
blow the place up while you stood out in the field." This put the party's
situation in a new light.

The dwarf made an offer: if they'd agree to head into the caverns under
the Gladwell place and do a little reconnaissance, he'd delay his report to
Epstien a few days, giving the party some time to prepare their flight from
punishment.  They agreed to the plan and took the dwarf's equipment back to
Edgwold.

## Wednesday, 1st day of the Frost Moon, 937

In the morning, Perrin, Brenda, Rago, Dera, and Hoyte headed to the blasted
magic tree in the woods south of the Astodan, planning to use the portal in the
tree's upper trunk to enter the dungeon without alerting Gladwell or his men.
They arrived in the dungeon, southeast of the complex junction, and made their
way toward the mine tunnels.  Only halfway there, though, they encountered two
ghasts and immediately turned tail and ran.  They reached the portal exit and
leapt through, scrambling or falling from the tree.  Several were badly hurt,
but no one died, and the ghasts declined to follow them down.

