---
layout: post
title : "I went to YAPC::NA in Orlando!"
date  : "2014-07-10T02:26:54Z"
tags  : ["perl", "yapc"]
---
A few weeks ago was YAPC in Orland, Florida, and I attended!  I already wrote
about [the amazingly great video
recording](http://rjbs.manxome.org/rubric/entry/2053) of the conference.  It
was great, and I was amazed.  I watched some of the videos just today!

I thought I'd write down a couple more things that I remember.

### I ate good food.

I like good food, and lucked out finding places to eat at YAPC.

Monday, I found a little banh mi place, [Banh Mi Nha
Trang](http://www.yelp.com/biz/banh-mi-nha-trang-orlando).  It was great.  One
sandwich was about three bucks.  I ate too much.  Walt took a nibble of a
pepper and declared it way too hot, so I ate the whole thing.  Shortly
thereafter, I was seriously considering whether I needed to request medical
attention.  I toughed it out, though.

On Tuesday, we got Cuban food at [Latin Square
Cuisine](http://www.yelp.com/biz/latin-square-cuisine-orlando).  I really miss
having great Cuban food in Bethlehem at the long-gone Cafe Havana.  Walt and I
split halves of our sandwiches: one Cubano and one Pepito.  The Pepito had
potato sticks on it, which was a big deal when eating at Cafe Havana.  I had a
pineapple soda.  It was great.  (I was strong and avoided getting empanadas or
tres leches, because I had to go right from lunch to giving a talk.  It was
hard, but I was strong.)

Wednesday, we got Asian/Mexican fusion tacos at [Tako
Cheena](http://www.yelp.com/biz/tako-cheena-orlando).  It was the least awesome
place, but I had no real problems with it.  The water was a bit too cucumberry
for me.  I'd definitely go again, though.  It seemed like a place worth going
to try the specials every week.

Wendesday night was the big pay-off, though.  Frew and Jerry Gay and I went to
[Cask & Larder](http://www.yelp.com/biz/cask-and-larder-winter-park), and it
was great.  The food was very good and the cocktails were great, and I would've
loved to have stayed for another few rounds, except for the whole "alcohol is a
poison" thing.  I was especially pleased to have a drink that combined green
Chartreuse and celery bitters, which I'd known in my heart would be a winning
combination.  It was!

### I didn't get a shirt.

Oops.  Frankly, that's fine.  I rarely wear YAPC shirts, although the "Chicago
flag with sigils" is an exception.  That's a great design.  I brough home very
little swag from YAPC, and that's fine.  As time goes on, swag becomes less
interesting to me unless it's really useful.  Best conference swag ever?
Notepads.  (OSCON's bookbag for speakers has also been a huge success.)  Grant
Street gave us USB batteries for charging phones (etc.) on the fly.  I haven't
tried mine yet, so the jury's still out.  It could be a big winner.

### I played Ogre!

Once again, there was a YAPC game night.  I was taken aback (and flattered) by
the number of people who approached me to try to get a seat at my
presumed-certain-to-occur D&D game.  I hadn't planned one!  Whoops.  Next year I better
get back on the ball!

Instead, I planned to play and teach Steve Jackson's
[Ogre](http://www.sjgames.com/ogre/), a tank battle board game of some fame.

<center><a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/14522435732" title="YAPC
Game Night by Ricardo SIGNES, on Flickr"><img
src="https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2913/14522435732_a1475937a8_z.jpg"
width="640" height="480" alt="YAPC Game Night"></a></center>

It was a success!  I think I lost every game, but I'm not sure.  Anyway, I had
a great time, and at least 2-3 games of Ogre occurred without me after I showed
the table how to play.  I realized that one problem with running a game at game
night was that I couldn't try all the other cool games people brought, but that
was okay.  It was good to think that I may have created at least one or two new
Ogre players.

### I talked to other perl5 porters!

We had a little sit-down in the hotel bar and talked about what's been going
on.  I previewed the yet-unreleased-at-the-time [civility
policy](http://markmail.org/message/jwojtqtkurw7byrr) and did not get any
panicked abort instructions.

I'm not sure what else was discussed, anymore.

### I saw some talks!

I did.  I also skipped a bunch, knowing that I could watch them later.  I
finally started doing the "watch stuff later" part today, and look forward to
doing some more of it tomorrow.  Among other things, I want to see Jesse
Luehr's talk on Rust and Scott Walters' talk on programming the Atari 2600, but
I'm pretty sure that reviewing the [YAPC
playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLA9_Hq3zhoFy5jmj6_Fd2YMuOjsovaIh-)
will remind me of other stuff I really wanted to see.

### I did not attend an auction!

So, so grateful.

### I stubbed my toe.

I'm really tempted to post a photo of my toe, which still looks just awful, but
I will refrain.  Nobody needs to see my nasty toe.

### I got zero programming done.

Every YAPC, I head out thinking that I'll get a bunch of programming done.  It
basically never happens.  Maybe next year, when I'm confident in the idea that
there will be video, I'll just sit in one place and chat and code.  This
yearâ€¦ I don't think I wrote a single line.

### I didn't meet enough new people.

When I wrote about going to [!!Con](http://rjbs.manxome.org/rubric/entry/2049),
I said that it was hard to meet people when I didn't know anybody to start
with, and that I wanted to try to meet more new people at YAPC.  I didn't do a
great job of following through with that, although I did better than I might
have.  It's very hard, I am reminded, to say, "I'm sorry good friend whom I see
only once a year, I need to spurn your company to go meet new people!"

I'm not sure I know the middle route, here.

Maybe I can form a marauding band of friends who go befriend new people and
continue the pillage until the entire conference is one mass of friendly
mayhem.

Sounds good.

