---
layout: post
title : "todo for 2014"
date  : "2014-01-07T16:33:07Z"
tags  : ["todo"]
---
Huh.  It looks like I haven't written a [todo list for the
year](https://rjbs.cloud/tags/#todo) since 2008.  I don't
know whether I wish I had, but I'm a bit surprised.  I'm going to list some
things from my lists 2005-2008 that I did not accomplish and start there.

#### write more prose and/or poetry

I keep meaning to write more, and I don't.  In 2013, I wrote 145 opening
sentences as part of my daily routine, but that's less a success than it is a
reminder of how easy it is to produce an opening sentence to keep that Daily
Practice streak going.  I need to find some other set of assignments to do, and
actually do them.

I've also changed my Daily Practice goal to give me a larger set of exercises
to do, including writing synopses for things to try writing later.  Then later,
I hope to make a second goal for trying to flesh out some of those ideas.

#### write a Cocoa application

I just didn't do it.  I need to find a project that's doable.  I think what I
want to do is instead first work on a little web service I have been wanting to
tackle.  Then I can write a client as a Cocoa project.  Like a number of other
project ideas, I think part of what blocks me is solitude.  I'd like to work on
these projects *with* someone, for motivation, for company, and for second
opinions.  I just don't have anybody local who's interested, and doing this
sort of thing remotely can be harder to sort out.

#### write more programs for fun

I spent a lot of time dealing with maintaining code that, for my purposes,
already works.  I want to spend less time doing this.  I've been doing a good
job at doing parts of it steadily, which hopefully means I can keep up with the
existing work, but I don't want to do more.  If anything, I want to do less.
Handling feature requests for a bunch of features that you don't need isn't
very interesting, but on the other hand just accepting anything without regard
for its impact on design quality isn't any good, either.

Instead of spending more time on existing working code, I want to write more
new (presumably pretty broken) code.  I have a ton of ideas for things to do,
and I just need to set aside the time to do it — but see above, regarding
solitude.

#### spend more time with friends

I tend to go out for a beer with a friend only once every few months.  This
seems ridiculous.  I also have a growing collection of unplayed board games.  I
just need to make more of an effort.

#### get my driver's license

Yeah.

#### cook and bake more often

I've gotten pretty good at making pancakes and fried eggs, and that's it.  I
want to keep working on the basics, and Martha likes helping, so I need to get
her more involved in helping pick projects, and then doing them.  I don't know
what we should try next, though.  Maybe roasts.

