---
layout: post
title : "freemium: the abomination of desolation"
date  : "2014-02-24T15:38:37Z"
tags  : ["games"]
---
I've never been a fan of "freemium," although I understand that game developers
need to get paid.  It often feels like the way freemium games are developed
goes something like this:

* design a good game
* focus on making the player want to keep playing
* insert arbitrary points at which the player must stop playing for hours
* allow the user to pay money to continue playing immediately

This model drives me batty.  It's taking a game and making it *worse* to
encourage the user to pay more.  It is, in my mind, the opposite of making a
good game that you can *make better* by paying more.  I gladly fork over money
for add-on content on games that were good to start with.  I never, ever pay to
repair a game that has been broken on purpose.

The whole thing reminds me of the
[486SX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_80486SX) processor, where you could
buy a disabled 486 processor now and later upgrade it with a completely new
processor that was pinned to only fit into the add-on slot.  At least the 486SX
could be somewhat explained away as a means to make some money on processors
that didn't pass post-production inspection.  These fremium games are just
broken on purpose from the start.

I think the deciding factor for me is whether I can play the game as much as I
want without hitting the pay screen.  Years ago, everyone at work was playing
[Travian](http://travian.us/).  It's a simple browser-based nation-building
game, something like a very simplified Civilization.  Your workers collect
resources and you use them to build cities, troops, and so on.  The game is
multiplayer and online, so you are in competition with other nations with whom
you may eventually go to war or with whom you may establish trade routes.  You
can keep playing as long as you have resources to spend and free workers.  by
paying money, you could speed up work or acquire more resources, but the game
didn't throw up a barrier every half hour forcing you to wait.  It was all a
natural part of the game's design, and made sense to have in a
simultaneous-play multiplayer game.  (Of course, the problem here is that
players willing to spend more money have a tactical advantage.  That's a
different kind of problem, though.)

I used to play an iOS game called [Puzzle
Craft](http://www.atgames.eu/puzzle-craft.html).  The basic game play is
tile-matching, and it's all built around the idea that you're the founder of a
village that you want to grow into a thriving kingdom.  At first, you
tile-match to grow crops.  Over time, new kinds of tiles are added, and you can
respond by developing new tools and by changing the matching rules.  You can
also build a mine, for a similar but not identical tile matching game.  You'll
need to deal with both resources to progress along your quest.

I was very excited to see that the makers of Puzzle Craft released a new game
this week, [Another Case
Solved](http://www.atgames.eu/another-case-solved.html).  It's a tile-matcher
built in a larger framework, just like Puzzle Craft, but this game is a silly
hard boiled detective game.  Matching tiles helps you solve mysteries.  The
game is fun to look at and listen to, but playing it has made me angrier and
angrier.

Unlocking major cases requires solving minor cases.  Solving minor cases
requires a newspaper in which to find them.  Newspapers are delivered every
fifteen minutes, and you can't have more than three or four of them at a time.
In other words, if you want to play more than four (very short) games an hour,
you have to spend "candy" to get more newspapers, and you get a piece or two of
candy every 12 hours.  Also, after a little while, the minor cases become
extremely difficult to solve, meaning that every hour you're allowed to play
the game three or four times, and that you will probably lose most of them,
because there is a low turn limit in each game.  Of course, you can keep
playing after the turn limit by paying candy.

The whole setup makes it completely transparent that the time and turn limits
are there to cajole the player into paying to be allowed to play the free game.
It sticks in my craw!  I like the game.  It is fun.  I would pay for it, were
it something I could buy at a fixed price.  Microtransactions to continue
playing the game, though, burn me up.

Maybe I should keep telling myself that I pumped *a lot* of quarters into
Gauntlet when I was a kid.  How different is this?

I think it's pretty different.  I've seen people play for a very, very long
time on one quarter.

