---
layout: post
title : YAPC::Asia 2015, day 2
date  : 2015-09-06T21:16:52Z
tags  : ["travel", "yapc"]
---
I woke up early again on the 22nd, some time before dawn, and did some
preparation for the conference.  It was my day for speaking, and I wanted to
make another pass through my slides.  Eventually, it was six thirty and I
decided to figure out what I could do for breakfast other than Starbucks.  I
went to look up "breakfast near Sunroute Ariake Hotel" and found a bunch of
reviews in which people praised the hotel's breakfast.  Marylou had said it
was just soup and bread, and that's when I realized my error: I had trusted
someone from Pittsburgh.

It turns out that the *other* hotel restaurant, on the second floor, had a full
buffet.  It was just like the one in Shinjuku, but with a better selection and
worse music.  I'd been sad that there was no fish on the menu in Shinjuku, but
had enjoyed the all-Beatles playlist.  There was an endless supply of broiled
Pacific saury at Ariake, but the music was all music box versions of 1980's
hits.  I think I listened to a ten-minute long version of "Take My Breath Away"
while eating.  I ate plenty of fish, a lot more okayu, and probably too much of
other things.  I am a big fan of the hotel breakfast buffet!

At the conference, I got to work adding a few sections to my slides.  I
especially wanted to discuss how some of the Unicode changes worked with
Japanese text, but I didn't get to add everything that I'd wanted.  The short
version of it was this:  `\b` isn't very useful for Japanese text, and '\b{wb}`
isn't much better.

Before I finished my last-minute editing, it was time to meet with the
translators.  In previous years, I'd been asked to supply my slides a week or
two in advance.  The YAPC volunteer translators would then, a few days later,
send me a text file of Japanese subtitles, which I'd add to my slides (at the
airport).  I viewed this as an amazing service, and a lot of work that probably
deserved more thanks than I remembered to give.

This year, though, the team went well beyond that.  Instead of getting slides
subtitled, they had live simultaneous translation provided by professional
translators.  I had a scheduled meeting, an hour long, an hour before my talk.
I figured this was sort of a window of time: at some point during it, I'd be
called in for a little while, and that would be that.  Was I ever mistaken!
I had been asked, a few weeks ahead of the conference, to provide my slides.  I
sent them what I usually give for my slides: a build-by-build PDF.  Each
addition of a bullet point was a new page, so you could easily step through the
talk to see how it would be presented.

When I got to my meeting, the translators had *a printout*.  I was aghast!  It
was something like four hundred pages, white on black.  The translators were
somewhat stunned, too.  "Are you really going to do this many slides?"

Fortunately, we cleared things up pretty quickly.  They'd made printouts to
annotate with notes to help with the more technical details.  The translators
were technical, but they needed information on some details that they weren't
familiar with.  (This made things fun.  One of them asked me, "Why would you
ever want hex float literals?" and I got to explain.)  They also inflate my ego
a little by telling me that they'd watched a video of my talk and found me to
be an interesting speaker.  I wasn't quite sure what to think, though, when
they elaborated that it was because I "liked to trick, and lie to, the
audience."  I understood, though, that they were a little worried about my
constant nonsensical digressions and jokes.  They were also worried by my
incorrigable punning.  They also were intrigued by the word "backwhack" for
"backslash."  It was a fun meeting.

The meeting actually took almost the full hour, and left me with just enough
time to clean up the slides that I'd left in progress, drink some water, and
otherwise get prepared to speak.  I think the talk went well.  I tried to avoid
too many verbal embellishments and puns.  You can decide how I did for
yourself, because [the talk is up on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XIm0QHhCBDA).  I was really curious
how the translation went, because even at my slowed-down speed, I spoke fairly
quickly.  So far, all I've heard were good things.  It must have been hard
work.  Later, someone told me that the each translator would only do a small
amount of work each day, because it was so taxing.  I bet!

After that, I was here and there, chatting, recovering, and otherwise enjoying
the hallways.  Bento box lunch was provided again, and this time speakers were
given the choice of several fancier boxes.  I picked one more or less at
random, and it was tasty.

<center>
<a data-flickr-embed="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/20909473295" title="conference day 2: bento"><img src="https://farm1.staticflickr.com/623/20909473295_5f04852e2a_z.jpg" width="640" height="480" alt="conference day 2: bento"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</center>

After lunch, I saw Miki and Marty give a talk on how containers work, including
"how to write your own containers in Perl."  It was excellent, and was among my
favorite kinds of talks.  It took a topic that many people know about and then
explained the underpinnings that most people don't understand.  I'm a big fan
of these talks, because they demystify things that programmers use all the time
without really understanding.  Using things you don't understand can be
convenient, but it makes it really hard to act rationally when things go wrong.
I think I'll probably re-watch this talk on YouTube sometime when I'm more
alert than I was in Tokyo.

Marylou gave her talk on posture, which was good, but I wish I could've seen
things being demonstrated from way, way in the back.  I was reminded that the
Japanese seem to be excellent at squatting, and that maybe I should work on
that myself.  After that, I caught the second half of Jonathan Worthington's
talk on concurrency in Perl 6, which was quite interesting.  Brad Fitzpatrick
gave a talk on profiling and optimization with Go, which did a good job of
showing off the Go tooling, much of which I hadn't seen before.  It was
impressive.

I attended the lightning talks, the same as I had the day before.  I was almost
totally unable to follow them, save for a few with enough English on the
slides.  Despite that, they were great fun to witness.  The energy level was
way, way higher than has become the average level at YAPC::NA, and most talks
drew boisterous laughter.  I wish I could've followed along more, but it was
great to see everyone have such a good time.  I haven't done a lightning talk
in years.  I better change that next year, assuming we *have* a YAPC::NA.
Still no venue!  (I'm voting for Philadelphia!)

The closing remarks came and went, mostly going over my head, and everybody
left.  I lagged behind, though, with a bunch of other foreign attendees,
chatting and planning dinner.  While we waited, the conference volunteers
(numbering about sixteen thousand, as I recall) had a final meeting and did
some group photos.  It turned out that there were one or two staff shirts left
unclaimed, and one of them was given to me!  I have to say, it's almost
certainly the best conference shirt I've ever gotten.  I don't have any photos
of me in it, at the moment, so here's one of the volunteer corps:

<center>
<a data-flickr-embed="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/20721443480" title="the YAPC::Asia volunteer staff"><img src="https://farm1.staticflickr.com/676/20721443480_5459b70c6e_z.jpg" width="640" height="480" alt="the YAPC::Asia volunteer staff"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</center>

As for dinner, I was adamant that I wanted to eat ramen.  Marcel seemed a
little reticent to commit to eating in the bay, since the food scene didn't
seem to be much of a scene, but we ended up sticking together, probably because
I looked like I could not possibly be gotten to do anything else.  I think we
had a good time, though, and I'm not sure it would've happened without Marcel,
who helped figure out how to get where we were going once we were at the right
GPS location.  (Several times in my trip, the GPS got me to a place, where I'd
realize that it was more or less just getting me to the right block, and after
that I'd have a million cubic meters to search through.)

Marcel, Marylou, Casey, and I made it to the food court of Aqua City Odaiba, a
big shopping mall in walking distance of the conference.  It was just a bit of
a hike, but not bad.  It was hot, though, and I drank several bottles of Pocari
Sweat on the way there (and later on the way back).  We all got ramen.  I think
Casey and Marylou got slightly tastier ramen than Marcel and I got, but I
wasn't bothered, because the ramen I got was unlike any ramen I'd had
previously.  I also had some beer, which was a good accompaniment.  It was
Asahi Super Dry, which tickled me, because I'd just read about the "[Dry
Wars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beer_in_Japan#Dry_Wars)" that erupted in
the Japanese beer scene in the late 80's.  Super Dry is a totally acceptable
Pilsner, which I enjoyed but didn't find outstanding.  The idea of a "wars"
fought over any title it might hold amused me.  Of course, we had our [Cola
Wars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cola_Wars), so I can't claim any sort of
cultural superiority on our beverage pacifism.

<center>
<a data-flickr-embed="true"  href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/20286905404" title="#yapcramen"><img src="https://farm1.staticflickr.com/674/20286905404_2cfdf60959_z.jpg" width="640" height="480" alt="#yapcramen"></a><script async src="//embedr.flickr.com/assets/client-code.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</center>

(Note also my 3DS in that photo.  Tokyo was a non-stop Street Pass fest.  Every
time I checked, I had ten or so new tags!  I cleared a lot of levels in plaza
games, I can tell you!)

On the way back, we stopped to see the giant Gundam statue near another
shopping center in the bay.  It was neat, but I was more interested in making
another trip to Tokyu Hands, because there was one there.  Sadly, it had closed
about ten minutes earlier, so I contented myself with getting some shots of the
robot before heading back to the hotel.

YAPC::Asia was over!  YAPC::Asia has always seemed very short to me, as a
conference.  As a non-speaker of Japanese, there are a lot of events that I
can't really take part in, and a lot of people in the hallway whom I can't
accost and chat up.  I know, from being on the other side of that, that it's
hard to make someone feel comfortable in, let alone part of, a group that's
quite literally foreign to them.  I think that the organizers and attendees of
YAPC::Asia did an excellent job of it, but in the end, there is a gulf left
between me and the mass of attendees, and I think that contributes to things
seeming to go by so far.  It's hard to milk every minute as I might do in
YAPC::NA.  I hope to keep this in mind in the future, though, and to keep
trying to make would-be outsiders feel welcome when I can.

I'll make one more post about my trip, covering my post-YAPC activities, in the
next few days.

