---
layout: post
title : "YAPC::Asia 2015, day 1"
date  : "2015-09-05T03:24:48Z"
tags  : ["travel", "yapc"]
---
I woke up really early on the 20th and did my best to kill time.  I called
home, I reviewed my slides and re-packed my bag.  Part of my goal was to delay
until breakfast was served, so I could eat something before heading to Ariake
for the conference.  I wanted to see whether the okayu had been relabeled, too!
Around 6:20, though, I couldn't stand any more waiting, and I headed out.  This
way, I figured, I'd avoid rush hour.

It almost worked.  Tokyo's rush hour is well-known for being crazy, and I'd be
departing from Shinjuku station, one of the busiest stations in the city.  I
got to the station just after one train left and decided to wander around,
looking for a bite to eat.  I didn't have much luck, and headed back to wait
for the next train, about a half hour.  While I waited for the next train to
Ariake, other trains came and went, and each one was busier than the last.  By
the time my train came, rush hour was clearly arriving.  Still, I got on and
even managed to get a seat pretty quickly.

I got off at
[Kokusai-Tenjijō](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kokusai-Tenjij%C5%8D_Station),
along with a huge crowd of men in identical suits.  They all headed directly to
Tokyo Big Sight while I headed to the hotel.  I was amazed to see the
conference center so close, since I'd totally missed it on my trip down before.
Of course, then it had been dark and I'd been exhausted.  This time, you
couldn't miss it.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/20899740492/in/dateposted-public/" title="Tokyo Big Sight"><img src="https://farm1.staticflickr.com/779/20899740492_d7ddca8016_z.jpg" alt="Tokyo Big Sight"></a>

I checked in, ran into Marylou, and headed to the conference to register and
find something to eat.  Marylou reported that the hotel's breakfast was only
soup and bread.  We ended up getting something at Starbucks, which was not
great, but was food.  We ran into Liz and Wendy, who got us to the actual
venue.  Big Sight is huge, and there was some danger that we'd just wander
around aimlessly until someone took pity on us.  Fortunately, that didn't
happen.

Actually, YAPC::Asia had already prepared us for this, so it wouldn't have
happened anyway.  They not only posted step by step instructions on how to get
to the conference area, *they posted a video*.  This blew my mind.  It walked
you through getting from the main entrance to the conference area.  You could
pull it up on your phone and follow along and eventually you'd be there!
The conference area was pretty busy.  The volunteers were getting things ready,
the attendees were showing up, and I was just sitting around zoning out.  I
wasn't too worried about getting registered first, and eventually I got my
stuff and we got started.

I saw Larry's opening talk, which I'd seen before at FOSDEM and Salt Lake City.
I wondered how many of the people in the room had read Lord of the Rings and
the Hobbit, which got me wondering:  how great would it be to give a talk based
on an elaborate [Soto](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S%C5%8Dt%C5%8D) vs.
[Rinzai](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rinzai_school) metaphor?  Well, I think
it would be great, but I think I'd be one of very few people to enjoy it.
Also, I'd have to relearn a lot of the things I've forgotten over the past
fifteen years.

Anyway, after Larry's talk came [Kelsey Hightower talking about
Kubernetes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-8aUxpVrD40), which was quite
interesting and included a lot of flawless live demonstration.  This was the
first of many talks on containers at YAPC::Asia.  I wish I'd been more awake
for it!  Sadly, I spent a lot of the day half awake.  There was a provided
lunch, at least in some quantity, and Karen and Marylou and I managed to get
in just before they ran out.  We had bento boxes, and they were tasty.  I also
got my hands on a Pepsi Refresh Shot, which was basically a five ounce can of
Pepsi's version of [Jolt Cola](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jolt_Cola).  I had
a few of these during the conference.  My consumption of these was definitely
way, way below my Pocari Sweat intake, though.

After lunch, it was time for Matz's talk… in Japanese!  Of course it was, but
for some reason I'd held out hope that there would be English.  Carlos, who I'd
meet later, told me I could go find the same talk in English online, but I have
yet to do that.  I will, I will…

Casey gave a talk on distributed teams, which reminded me that
[Hackpad](https://hackpad.com/) exists!  I need to figure out whether I'd find
it useful the way I used to find similar things useful.  My guess is that since
I haven't missed those very much, I'll live without Hackpad.  Still, might be
fun.

After that, I tried to stay social in the common areas, and time flew by.
Pretty soon, it was time for the conference dinner.  There was a huge spread,
never-ending beer, and a really high ceiling, so the acoustics were good for
conversation.  I think I ate about four pieces of ziti and drank a fair bit of
beer, but I think I was too jetlagged for it to have any effect on me.
(There's a thought to file away for future trips, I guess!)

At previous YAPC::Asias, I found the dinner somewhat difficult, because it
wasn't easy for me to go chat up random attendees, and I was very rarely
appraoched by anyone there.  This year, for whatever reason, that didn't seem
to be a problem.  I spoke with quite a few attendees, both local and foreign,
and had a really good time.  One attendee, who told me he was mostly an Android
programmer, asked me about Perl 6.  "I hear it's got some backward
incompatibilities."

This kind of question would be inconceivable at YAPC::NA.  Everybody is there
because it's a Perl conference.  YAPC::Asia isn't, really.  It's a technical
conference with a strong Perl heritage.  One way to think about it is that it's
a very good general tech conference for software engineers, but which has a
much better chance of having a bunch of Perl content compared to a conference
run based on trends.  Going to a conference with lots of people from outside
your usual circle is a good idea.  If they're experts in the kind of thing
you're not, even better!

This reminds me of the stories I've heard about people who up and decide to go
attend a conference for psychologists or architects.  Maybe I should do that,
someday, too.

After dinner, a group of us headed back to the hotel, intended to have another
drink before bed, but the hotel bar was full of people dancing in a circle and
beating drums.  I took it as a sign, went upstairs, and collapsed.

