---
layout: post
title : RPG Recap: Beyond the Temple of the Abyss, 2015-02-28
date  : 2015-03-07T01:42:17Z
tags  : ["rpg-beyond", "dnd", "rpg"]
---
## Friday, 3rd day of the Frost Moon, 937

After a strange and gloomy day spent creeping through the elven woods, Argo had
led the party to a clearing in which a small village stood.  He fled, promising
to return, but nobody believe that for a second.  As night fell, they headed in
without him.

They neared the gates and Brenda and Rago opened them and went inside.  The
place seemed deserted, although not ruined by any means.  As the party moved
forward, they were suddenly surrounded by a pack of stray dogs.  They quickly
put them down with minimal injuries, although Rago suffered a few broken ribs.

Through they melee, they'd been slowly approached by two torch-bearing men who
were cirling the town's wall from the east.  They claimed to be devotees of
Ibrim, although they were a bit muddy on any details whatsoever.  Knash
interrogated the clerics, and a villager appeared from behind a building,
carrying a dim red torch.  He asked whether the group was entirely human, and
when assured (especially about Brenda the Greenish), told everyone they could
stay the night.  He led them through the deserted street, past an occupied
gallows.  "Don't touch the hanged man," he said, the only instruction he gave.
He left them at a small guest house.  The group went inside, turned on the
space heater, and got their first tolerable night's sleep in days.

## Saturday, 4th day of the Frost Moon, 937

In the morning, the party made a slow circuit of the village.  They saw a small
bakehouse with a pile of many-colored logs beside it.  There were several small
houses, seemingly unoccupied; a reinforced and especially warm building; a few
buildings burned to the ground to differing extents; a big pile of stones; a
spiraling metal structure; a closed-up stable; and the large, high building in
the middle of the town, where the gallows stood.

The man in the gallows (later identified as "Halewin") looked fresh, based on
the pink flesh of his chest.  His shirt had been pulled up over his head and
tied to the noose.  The party left him alone.

Eventually, their circuit completed, a few went into the bakehouse and there
found their host, making bread, which he shared.  He said that things were
difficult because he was unable to contact his superiors, due to damage to
their communication equipment.  Knash suggested that the group could help, and
the host was dismissive until he was shown that the party had a scrying screen.
He immediately asked to use it, and he and Knash went off to connect it to the
rest of the village equipment while the rest of the party enjoyed some fresh
bread.

