---
layout: post
title : "2017 in review, the 2018 plan"
date  : "2018-01-01T20:40:43Z"
tags  : ["todo"]
---
It has been almost a year since my last blog post, in which I complained that
[Slack silently drops some
messages]({% post_url 2017-01-24-the-slack-irc-gateway-drops-your-messages %}) for people using the IRC
gateway.  That bug was about a year old then, and it's about two years old now.
I'm still annoyed… but that's not why I'm here.  I'm here to summarize what I
did this year, since I forgot to post anything about it during the year.

I have been keeping busy, despite appearances to the contrary.  My involvement
in the Perl 5 community has been way down: I'm doing less on p5p, touching less
on the CPAN, and I didn't even make it to the [Perl Toolchain
Summit](http://act.qa-hackathon.org/qa2017/) this year, for the first time in
seven years!  What has caused this disruption?  In part it's just a continued
trend, but mostly it has been work.  I have been busy, busy, busy.

There have been two parts to that.  The first, at least chronologically, was
[Topicbox](https://www.topicbox.com/).  Topicbox is FastMail's newest product,
and I spent about a year and a half hard at work on building it (but not
alone).  The lousy five cent explanation is "it's a mailing list system," but
that description is lousy.  It calls to mind Mailman or Majordomo, or even our
previous email discussion product, Listbox.  I really enjoyed using Listbox,
but Topicbox puts it to shame.  Beyond being much (*much*) faster and simpler,
it changes the focus from mailing lists to organizations.  You create an
organization, invite its members, and then discussions can be organized into
topics.

Topicbox is built on [JMAP](http://jmap.io/), a developing standard for
efficient client/server applications based on simple synchronized object
storage.  We wrote it in Perl 5, in [Ix](https://github.com/fastmail/Ix), a
framework we built for writing JMAP applications.  I spent much of 2016 working
alone on Ix, but now several members of the internal dev team work on it and
Topicbox a lot of their time.  At first, this was mainly a quality of life
improvement for me.  I'd been largely working in isolation, which was fine, but
not great, and having people to discuss my work problems with was a big win.

Since then, the kind of work problems I have has changed substantially, which
is the second thing that's kept me so busy with work this year.  [Pobox became
part of
FastMail](http://blog.pobox.com/2015/11/exciting-news-about-pobox-and-fastmail.html)
in late 2015, and I think everybody realized pretty quickly that nobody on
either side of the deal thought anybody on the other side was a boor or a
cretin.  Still, things moved slowly.  The acquisition took (as I remember it)
about fifty-two years to complete, and further integration of the teams was
slow going.  By early 2016, we knew we needed to re-organize the company at
least somewhat to provide some structure for the growing team.  We went through
a few iterations of this, and by mid-year I ended up with business cards that
said, "[Ricardo Signes,
CTO](https://blog.fastmail.com/2017/12/23/interview-rjbs/)."

I've long wanted to be doing technical management, and this change has felt
like I skipped a step or two on my imagined career path — which is just fine,
since I felt like I'd spent a few too many years as an individual contributor.
It's been a really enjoyable challenge to bring myself up to speed on parts of
the system I've previously half-ignored, to start to build a coordinated plan
for the future of our systems, and to work with all of the technical staff to
execute that vision.  I feel pretty good about our plans for 2018, and about
the team's general excitement for the future.  Beyond my project plan for 2018,
I want this to be the year where I figure out and (more or less) lock down the
amount of time I spend on different kinds of work.

I wrote todo lists for a few years in the past, and most of the time, I did
very poorly.  My finding was generally that I'd make pretty good progress on
all my ongoing work projects, and could keep up with the random things I had
going on, but I rarely made good progress on goals stated up front.

Probably many different things contributed to this, ranging from laziness to
changing interests to bad time management to lack of accountability.  I've
tried to address some of these problems in the past, and I'm still trying, and
I'm sure I'll never make as much of a one-year improvement as I want, but I'm
going to keep trying.

May plan for 2018 is to try to stick to a three-tier routine: a daily routine,
a weekly routine, and a monthly routine.  Each one will start with a "make
specific goals beyond the routine ones" and end with "write something about how
you did."  This writing will mostly go into my [Day One](http://dayoneapp.com/)
journal, rather than boring everybody who subscribes to my blog's long-dead RSS
feed… but I'll try to post some updates when I think it's interesting.

In 2017, I set my Goodreads reading goal to 52 books, and I hit 50% of that
goal with a few hours to spare.  For 2018, I've scaled back to 48, so I'll
still have to push to hit it.  I've set a few more specific goals about
socializing with people, and I've said that every month I need to pick a skill
to get better at, and then work on it.  Maybe in time I'll realize that a month
is longer than I need for most things, and make it a weekly pick.

This month, my goal is to get a better handle on IMAP.  I have a tolerable
understanding of it, but there are a few parts I could brush up on, and I think
this will be a nice place to start.  (It might also make it clear whether a
month is too long for something small in scope.)

The other thing I need to keep in mind is that lots of other things are bound
to come up and try to disrupt my routine.  Sometimes, I might have to let them.
When that happens, I need to be sure that I recover from the disruption, and
that I don't view it as a failure, but just as a thing that happened.  I think
that a routine is a big help at getting things done, and that I've
traditionally been so-so at sticking to non-work routines.  I need to focus
energy on getting into one, so that I can eventually have one without having to
keep spending energy on it.  Right?  I think so.

