---
layout: post
title : "I took some time off!"
date  : "2019-08-12T02:27:48Z"
---
With a lot of PTO hours piled up, leave accounting somewhat in flux at work,
and [MoMA](https://www.moma.org/) incredibly closed until *October*, I resolved
to take some time off from work, during which I would stay home and work on
stuff that I'd been ignoring.  For example, my big queue of "conference
presentations to watch" and my backlog of articles to read, personal
coding projects to poke at, some little quality-of-life fixes to my home setup.
Then, of course, I also wanted to do some actually fun things:  hang out with
my family, have some nice meals, watch some movies, go to a museum or two, and
so on.

Short summary:  I think this was a big success.  I might shoot for doing this
twice a year or so, in the future, and still have time left to take a proper
out-of-town vacation.

I think I did pretty well on the "do good relaxing stuff" front.  Gloria and I
went to the Barnes Foundation, we all got a few meals out, I got ice cream, and
I went to the local cider place for drinks and pizza with some friends.  Also,
Gloria and I are now about halfway through season two of Star Trek: Discovery.

I'll write up a bit more about specific things of note over the next few days,
I hope, but in brief:

I fixed a bunch of my config files, especially for offlineimap and Vim.  Doing
this briefly added about sixty extraneous folders to my IMAP store, but
fortunately, as an email professional, I knew how to delete them.

Ages ago, [I lost a lot of my mp3s]({% post_url 2014-06-15-just-how-much-data-did-i-lose %})
due to my own idiocy.  Since then, I've really pulled back on my use of iTunes.
In part, because I lost so much music.  In part, because iTunes has continued
to get worse.  In part, because I just like Spotify a whole lot.  Despite this,
I *do* want to have my iTunes library on my phone, and I have a phone big
enough that I can keep most of my library on it.  Unfortunately, somehow iTunes
got into its head that it couldn't sync.  Further, although I could tell it to
delete all local content, it wouldn't stop thinking that it basically knew
about the content, which seemed to be getting in the way.  Finally, I deleted
the playlists from the phoneâ€¦ which then synchronized to my library.  My
favorite playlists are smart playlists about three deep (for example, "Radio
RJBS" is every song on one of three playlists, each of which is all the songs
on two other playlists plus extra criteria), and the playlists I deleted were
deep in this hierarchy of smart playlists.  I had to get the base64 encoded
playlist rule definitions out of the XML of a backup of my iTunes library,
decompile the binary rules, and recreate things.  It stank, but in the end, I
got my music onto my phone!

This kind of horrible job was a good example of something I felt I could do
this week that I couldn't have done other weeks.  Very often, I feel very
pressed for time, and once a task becomes too time-consuming, I move on, even
though it leaves me unhappy to do so.  I feel like I don't have time to spend
on things that are of value only to me and are slow grinds.  This week, I did
quite a bit of that.  A bunch of it was tedious, but it got done, and *that*
felt good.

Another kind of tedious but necessary task: My little goal-tracking
API-masher-up, [Ywar]({% post_url 2013-09-04-my-new-daily-agenda-emails %}) has been
suffering from a bit of bit rot, especially with its Withings integration,
which I used to fetch my daily weight measurements.  They recently turned off
OAuth1 support, so I had to switch to OAuth2.  I find OAuth pretty tedious in
all its manifestations, so I'd put this off, but I'm trying to pay more
attention to my Ywar emails, and so I need things that can be automated to stay
automated.  I got it working, it's stupid, it's ugly, but it works.  I got a
push notification to my phone within five minutes of the fix, and that was
terrific.

I also put in some calm brain time on things that have felt like overwhelming
tasks that I should probably do, but didn't really need to.  For example, I
want to rebuild my Linodes to be easier to maintain and redeploy in the future,
but they work fine, so the pressure is low.  I didn't do this, but I did write
down a list of the things I'll have to do, so I can do it later without as much
thinking.  I ended the week with a couple new small todo lists in Remember the
Milk for these projects.

I also got to the gym on seven of the nine days I was on leave, sometimes more
than once.  This was pretty good, although a couple times I dropped an exercise
from my scheduled routine.  (I am excited to try "explosive pushups" in theory,
but in practice, I was tired as heck!)  On a few days, I got there more than
once a day so I could do some cardio in addition to lifting.  This was great
because, mostly, it meant I felt more motivated to sit in the steam room, which
is always a treat.  Also, I watched some Better Call Saul.

More soon.

