---
layout: post
title: perl v5.36.0 has been released
date: "2022-05-28T15:44:19-05:00"
---

Yesterday, I released perl v5.36.0.  I think this is the most exciting release
of perl in quite some time, and I'm hoping that in a few months, I'll still be
as pleased with it as I am today.  Here's a summary of what we got done, what
we didn't get done, and (to some extent) how it got done.

# What's new?

Every new version of perl ships with the "perldelta", which provides a fairly
detailed list of what's new, down to small optimizations and bugfixes.  It's
not comprehensive, but it's more detailed than you usually want for casual
reading.  The [perldelta for
v5.36.0](https://metacpan.org/release/RJBS/perl-5.36.0/view/pod/perldelta.pod)
is weighted to put the good stuff first, but if you want, you can just read my
summary here!

A bunch of the things documented below are experiments, and will warn you when
you use them.  Check them out, use them day to day, but don't stick them in
your critical money-making code just yet!

## reducing boilerplate

[Perl 7](https://www.perl.com/article/announcing-perl-7/) was announced a
little less than two years ago, and from there, differences in priorities
within the perl development community came to a head, eventually resulting in
[perlgov](https://perldoc.perl.org/perlgov), a new system of governance for the
project.  If you want to know more about it, you can find a lot about this on
the web.  I talk about some of it in my [What's New in Perl
5.34](http://blogs.perl.org/users/perl_steering_council/) talk from the Perl
Conference last year.  I won't be dwelling on it here, but it's important
context for one of the big priorities in v5.36.

Perl 5 is a fairly old and complex language, and over time quite a few things
have become acknowledged almost universally as best or worst practices.
*Always* start by using strict.  *Never* use bareword filehandles.  Perl 7 was
going to change the default behavior of the language so you didn't need to opt
in to best practice enforcement.  If you wanted to opt out, you had to.  This
would cause work when upgrading, which was (I think) the primary objection to
the plan.

Even those of us who didn't want to change the default behavior of perl
generally acknowledged that perl's defaults are not great.  Making it easier
for people to get the best possible perl was a priority.  We started talking
about how Perl 7 changed the behavior of the program starting at line 1, while
having to write "use strict" would change your program by line 2.  The goal
became "reduce the entire set of best practice opt-ins to a single line".  This
would keep the "no opt-in" behavior as the sometimes annoying or dangerous Perl
5.0 default, but would make it possible to get *everything* that we think you
should be using in a single line.  That line is:

```perl
use v5.36;
```

The `use VERSION` syntax is nothing new, but we made it a priority to focus on
what it *should* do, and to make that happen.  I now think it's practical to
write long-lived programs that have `use v5.36` as their only boilerplate line.
Here's what it does, in brief:

* turns on strict (use strict)
* turns on warnings (use warnings) ⬅  that's new!
* turns on all the same new features as v5.34…
* …except `switch`, which is finally left out!
* turns off indirect object syntax
* turns off multidimensional array emulation
* turns on subroutine signatures ⬅  woo!

### turned on: warnings

This was the first big reason that `use v5.34` wasn't enough for me.  I *also*
always wanted warnings.  Now I get them.  Excellent!

### turned off: indirect object syntax

"indirect object syntax" is the thing that lets you write `$obj = new
Class(...)` instead of `Class->new(...)`.  The big problem this solves is that
it converts many bugs from runtime errors into compile time errors.  For
example, this code will now fail at compile time, instead of runtime:

```perl
#!perl
use v5.36;

# Note that I didn't use Try::Tiny here.

try { some_expensive_operation };
```

With `indirect`, this will call `some_expensive_operation`, then try to call
the method `try` on it.  This will (probably) fail, because there is no such
method.  You meant to use Try::Tiny to get the `try` function, but forgot.
With the `indirect` feature disabled, this becomes a compile time error.  (It's
a slightly arcane error, but it happens at compile time rather than run time,
and I think it's a big win.)

### turned off: multidimensional array emulation

I'll miss this one, because I liked it, but I agree it was really weird and
probably caused a lot of confusion.

```perl
for my $i (0..10) {
  for my $j (0..10) {
    $value{ $i, $j } = get_value($i, $j);
  }
}
```

See how I put a list of values in the subscript for `%value`?  That's not a
mistake.  Perl will see the list and implicitly join the list's values into a
single string which is used as the hash key.  Join with what delimiter, you
ask?  Why, whatever is in `$;`, of course!

Without the `multidimensional` feature in play, you'll have to write the join
by hand.  Or do anything else you like.

### turned on: subroutine signatures

Well, this took us long enough, huh?

We've been kicking this one down the road for a lot of reasons.  The biggest
one is that we *still* think we can make subroutines with signatures *much*
faster than subroutines without signatures.  We didn't do it yet, but it's been
so long that these have been sitting unchanged in experimental that it just
seemed wrong to leave them there.  Now, when you write `use v5.36`, you get
signatures available on your subroutines.

There's one change, though:  you're now warned against using `@_` inside a
subroutine that has a signature.  Right now, it works, but later it might not.
What *will* it do?  Probably nothing you'd ever want to rely on.  So just don't
do it!

## n-at-a-time iteration

There's a new (experimental) feature called `for_list`.  It lets you do this:

```perl
for my ($left, $middle, $right) (@list_of_triples) {
  printf "%20s %20s %20s\n", $left, $middle, $right;
}
```

…and it will iterate over the list three-at-a-time.  If the list's length isn't
divisible by three, the missing values are presented as undef.  This means, of
course, you can write this:

```perl
for my ($k, $v) (%hash) {
  ...
}
```

I will definitely be using this to replace the tedious pattern of iterating
over keys and immediately fetching out values.  If you want to iterate over
indexes and values in an array, we have you covered, too:

```perl
for my ($i, $v) (indexed @array) {
  ...
}
```

What's `indexed`?  It takes a list of values and returns the same list, zipped
together with indexes.  It's useful, but not very interesting.  What *is*
interesting is…

## the builtin namespace

Ages ago (well, 12 years ago), [Yves Orton suggested we start using some
namespace for new Perl
functions](https://www.nntp.perl.org/group/perl.perl5.porters/2010/08/msg163566.html)
so that we'd stop cluttering up the core namespace.  This year, we finally did
it.  The namespace `builtin` exists to serve as a place we can put new
functions without worrying about clobbering user functions.

If you want to use `indexed` you can either write `builtin::indexed` or you
can import it:

```perl
use builtin 'indexed';

for my ($i, $v) (indexed @array) {
  ...
}
```

(Those imports are *lexical*, unlike the global functions you usually get when
importing.)

There are a bunch of functions already in `builtin` in v5.36:

* `weaken`, `unweaken`, `is_weak` - for managing weak references, now core
* `blessed`, `refaddr`, `reftype` - for information about refs, now core
* `ceil`, `floor` - for converting floats to integers; no more loading POSIX for
  these
* `trim` - to efficiently trim whitespace from a string; this was a source of
  enormous contention!

And then there were:

* `created_as_string`, `created_as_number` - these will tell you whether perl
  can remember that the given variable was created as a literal number or as
  the result of a numeric operation; perl doesn't really have *types* for
  scalar values, but it can be useful to know what its gut feeling is
* `is_bool` - the same thing, but for booleans
* `true`, `false` - produce boolean values without having to write `1 == 1`

These are very special-purpose tools, largely there to make doing things like
serializing to JSON more predictable.  You probably don't want to use these
often, but when you want them, these are a *lot* nicer than the old way, which
was basically "screw around with [B](https://metacpan.org/pod/B)".

## defer blocks

If you've used Go (or some other languages) you know `defer`.  It lets you
write code that won't be executed until the program is exiting the enclosing
block:

```
{
  my $resource = construct_resource();

  defer { $resource->cleanup(leave_files => 1) };

  $resource->do_stuff;
}
```

Here, the defer block's code won't be executed until the whole enclosing block
ends, after `do_stuff` is called.

Sometimes code like this could be reduced to "well, there's a destructor on
`$resource`", but not always.  For example, here, we're passing some arguments
in that might not do what the normal destructor would do.  Also, there might
not be a clear thing to handle the logic on destruction.  This has led to a
bunch of CPAN modules that are just sugar for "take a code ref, return a
useless object, and when the object is destroyed, the code ref is called".
These defer blocks don't make that entirely obsolete, but they go a long way.

## finally blocks

Perl v5.34 added `try` and `catch` as experiments.  In v5.36, we've added
`finally`, which goes after `catch` and provides code that will run after the
try block succeeds or the catch block executes, whichever happens.  It's
roughly sugar for a `defer` block tied to the try/catch.

## lots and lots of quote delimiters

Okay, this one is one of my personal favorites, even though it isn't the most
transformative feature we've ever added:

```
use v5.36;
use feature 'extra_paired_delimiters';
no warnings "experimental::extra_paired_delimiters";

my $error = qq«No value found at \$foo->[0]{$_} (fatal!)»;
```

With extra paired delimiters enabled, *many* new pairs join `(...)` and `<...>`
and `[...]` and `{...}` as delimiters for quote-like operators.  This means
you're much less likely to have to think about escaping or counting brackets.
I'm pretty sure I'll almost always use `«...»`, but there are quite a few good
choices.

This whole area was interesting because:

1. It starts making a foray into non-ASCII syntax, which I think is good.
2. It exposes the complexity in picking paired brackets; I'm hopefully that
   ongoing Unicode Consortium work is going to make this their problem, not
   ours.
3. It found some very weird code on the CPAN, where someone had (more or less)
   written `s/ ̈/ ̃/g` to replace diaereses with tildes.  But really, the way
   their code was written, it was more like `s/̈/̃/g`, where the combining marks
   combined with the `/`s.  So weird!

I look forward to more non-ASCII syntax over time.  Probably.

## ...and more!

Look, there are a lot of other changes in there, but this post is pretty long
already and I want to cover other stuff.

# What isn't new?

There were quite a few things we'd talked about getting into v5.36 that we
*didn't*, and some of them, I hope, are still on the list of things to be
gotten done for v5.38.

## disabling bareword filehandles

What if we got rid of barewords being usable as filehandles?  It'd get rid of a
major source of non-lexical variables and at the same time help ensure
filehandle discipline (that is: closing things when you're done!).  Turning off
the `bareword_filehandles` feature was meant to forbid using barewords as
filehandles, but quite late in the game we realized that it was insufficiently
tested, and [sometimes forbid using a bareword for a class on the left hand side
of an arrow](https://github.com/Perl/perl5/issues/19704).

```
dinah:~$ perl -E 'no feature "bareword_filehandles"; print Class->new'
Bareword filehandle "Class" not allowed under 'no feature "bareword_filehandles"' at -e line 1.
```

Hopefully this just needs some more testing and bugfixing.

## mandating clearer source code encoding

I had really wanted to make `use v5.36` also imply `use utf8`, which would
declare that the source file on disk is encoded in UTF-8 and should be decoded
as read.  Eventually, I was convinced that this would be too confusing, because
it would break programs that printed their own literal strings to normal
filehandles.  They'd be printing Unicode codepoints to a byte stream, which
would trigger warnings and, sometimes, produce the wrong output.

Eventually, the proposal became [RFC
7](https://github.com/Perl/RFCs/blob/main/rfcs/rfc0007.md), which creates a new
pragma, `use source::encoding`.  It lets you declare that the source file is
declared in UTF-8, equivalent to `use utf8`, but it also lets you declare the
the file is in ASCII.  Then, the version bundle can default to implying ASCII.
It won't let you just write non-ASCII in your source, but it will turn
non-ASCII source code into a compile time error rather than weird runtime
behavior.  (It has other nice properties, too.)

## finishing more experiments

I really wanted to make `declared_refs` and `refaliasing` non-experiments.
Unfortunately there are still some serious bugs that make them not good enough.
Bummer!  If you don't remember what even these are, they'd let you do this:

```perl
for my (\@values) (@array_of_arrayrefs) {
  @values = reverse @values; # affects the ref stored in @a_of_a
}
```

Making this all work nicely leads to more general-use syntax, I hope.

## converting some features into standards

We're probably not going to turn strict on by default, roughly ever.  But there
*are* some things turned on by `use v5.36` that should be on by default, I
think.  These include the `postfix_qq` feature, which allows postfix
dereferencing inside of interpolative (double-quoted) strings, and the
`unicode_strings` feature, which fixes a set of similar bugs in Perl's handling
of non-ASCII strings.  (The bugs were so significant that many people ended up
relying on them, or building workarounds that would be broken by the fix, which
is basically the same thing as relying on them.  Still, they're bugs, and
should go.)

Then there's `bitwise`, which makes the `|` operator, and the other bitwise
operators, always treat their arguments like numbers.  This correctly brings
them in line with other operators:  operators impose type, not values.  I hope
we can make the bitwise feature a default.

## SSL out of the box

We don't have a very clear plan here, but since forever, it's been a pain to go
from "I have working perl" to "I have a working HTTPS client".  We've talked
about ways to fix this.  I'd like to see one happen, but I'm also not holding
my breath.

## runtime module loading

Given a variable with a module name in it, if you want to load the module, you
can either use `eval` or [Module:Load](https://metacpan.org/pod/Module::Load).
[RFC 6](https://github.com/Perl/RFCs/blob/main/rfcs/rfc0006.md) proposes adding
`builtin::load`, which *always* takes a scalar expression and *always* treats
it as a module name, eliminating some complicated behavior in other libraries.

This has been implemented on the CPAN a dozen times.  We just want a single,
simple, in-core version.

## a lexical importer

I think it's important that we offer a simple means to say "I want to export
this subroutine, but as a lexical, not package, subroutine."  `builtin` now
does this, and other things should be able to follow suit.  It would go a long
way to eliminating weird namespace cleaning hacks.

## lots of other stuff

People suggested many other changes, some well specified, some vague, some
exciting, some mundane.  In the next year, some of these will happen, some will
not, and some will evolve into *new* ideas that might happen or not.  If you
want to stay abreast of all this, you can subscribe to
[perl5-porters](https://lists.perl.org/list/perl5-porters.html), where "changes
to perl" (including bugfixes, documentation, and so on) are the order of the
day.

# How perl v5.36.0 happened

There were a couple big changes in how we got perl v5.36.0 put together.

## The PSC

The first was the steering council.  Although v5.34.0 was *also* released
during the era of the PSC (Perl Steering Council), it was already halfway
developed when the PSC was seated.  We had our first meeting in January 2021,
when the code freeze for v5.34 was just getting underway.  Also, the future of
the project (for example, the question of Perl 7) was still up in the air, and
that was our business much more than specific changes.

Perl v5.36.0 was managed by Neil Bowers, Paul Evans, and me for very close to
its whole lifespan.  We quickly established our priorities and set about
working on them, keeping lists of things we wanted to push on and how they were
going.  The three of us were generally very busy with non-Perl things, and I
think our weekly calls helped keep us engaged and helped to keep things moving.
We didn't always agree, but we were always able to come to a consensus that we
felt good about putting forward.  I think this was good for Perl, and it was
definitely good for me.  I am happiest when working in collaboration with
others where I don't need to worry about the question of good faith or shared
goals, and I think this was very much the case in the current PSC.

This, by the way, led to my choice of release epigraph for v5.36.0, from The
Three Musketeers:

> “What!” cried he, in an accent of greater astonishment than before “your
> second witness is Monsieur Aramis?”
>
> “Doubtless! Are you not aware that we are never seen one without the others,
> and that we are called among the Musketeers and the Guards, at the court and
> in the city, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, or the Three Inseparables?”

## RFCs

The other big change was the RFC process.  This was something we'd talked about
off and on for many years, with increasing frequency over the last few.  A
formal process submitting language changes was introduced last year, and we
used it to manage suggestions for v5.36.  I've liked to it a few times already
in this post.

My take is that the RFC process has been a *qualified* success.  That is: it's
been a success, but I think we can improve it significantly.  I think it lacks
clarity.  It's fairly transparent, but insufficiently centered in what we're
doing.  It feels like it has too much process without enough rigor.  That said,
it's a lot better than, "Hey what ever happened to that idea the one person had
that one time?"

I'd like to take a little time in the next month or two, assuming I'm still
with the PSC (because there's an election coming up) to make some refinements
to the process.  I'd like to use the same time to help clean up our issue
tracker, which feels like chaotic than RT did, but is still sort of a big pile
of messy stuff.

# In Conclusion…

I don't really actually have a conclusion to draw.  Personally, I think v5.36
is the most compelling release of perl in a long time.  I look forward to using
its features.  I think that the exact set of people on this PSC helped make
this possible, and I'm anxious about how the next council will do.  Probably,
they'll do fine.  I just don't like change.

I think a lot of people say, "Perl can reclaim the high ground in programming
languages if only..." and others say, "Because Perl can't ever become as
popular as it once was, spending any time making it better is a waste."  I
guess I'm oversimplifying, but I feel like I hear both these opinions almost
exactly on a relatively frequent basis.  It's probably not surprising that I
think *my* take is better than those.  Perl has a lot of users, including me.
If we can improve the life of people who are writing and maintaining code in
Perl, we should do it.  I don't think we should focus on overtaking (say) Go as
trendy modern language, and I don't think we should all give up and go rewrite
everything in (say) Go.  Programming languages are tools, and tools retain
value for long after they cease to be the exciting new innovation.  I just want
to keep my saw sharp.
