---
layout: post
title : "World Uncovered is cool"
date  : "2024-05-19T12:00:00Z"
tags  : ["travel"]
image : /assets/2024/05/vienna-uncovered.png
---

Years ago, I found an iOS app called [World
Uncovered](http://www.worlduncovered.com/).  I used it for a while, then forgot
about it, then started using it again.  It's pretty cool, and I keep telling
people about it, so I thought I'd write a post about it.

It's like this: you let it track your movements the same way that a fitness app
like RunKeeper would, and instead of telling you how many steps you're getting
in, it tells you where you've ever walked, ever.  Keeping in mind that I
sometimes have it turned off, and forgot about it for years, check out my map
for Philadelphia:

![Philly Uncovered](/assets/2024/05/philly-uncovered.png)

Sometimes I joke with my coworkers that I have never been to West Philadelphia.
It's not true, but… I mean, you can see my usual stomping grounds.  You can
also see the little excursions up toward Bethlehem, off to Camden, and down…
well, I don't know what I was doing down in South Philly, but that little
diagonal below the Italian Market is definitely representative of a few trips
to Milk Jawn.

Like I said, I'd forgotten all about the app until February, when I was in
Vienna for a few days.  For some reason I was flipping through my phone's
screens and saw it and thought, "I should log this trip!"  It was great fun,
and it made me realize all the trips I had failed to log for the past few
years:  Norway, Brussels, England, Australia, and others.  I like to see new
places, and these little marked-up maps are a fun memento.  Here's Vienna:

![Vienna Uncovered](/assets/2024/05/vienna-uncovered.png)

A few months later, I was in Lisbon, which you'll know if you've been keeping
up with my posts here.  Lisbon was fun because I took a train off to the west
coast, so I got a map with two hubs of activity with a long straight train ride
between them:

![Lisbon Uncovered](/assets/2024/05/lisbon-uncovered.png)

Lisbon was also where I *finally* got a "landmark" achievement.  The app has
its own (somewhat eccentric, I think) collection of landmarks, and by visiting
them you can tick it off your list.  If you visit enough, you get an
achievement.  Is this a good way to plan your travel?  No.  Is it fun if it
happens anyway?  Well, for me it was.  I got Belém Tower.

Weirdly, there are no World Uncovered landmarks in Philly or in Melbourne.
Still, I'll keep an eye out for landmarks on future trips.  I also wouldn't
mind getting a few of the "passport" achievements for visiting new countries.
That'll take some time, though!

As for the app itself, it feels sort of dated.  It hasn't had an updated in
three or four years, and the UI is kind of clunky.  The backup feature
constantly needs to be reauthenticated with Dropbox, and unless you knew to
turn on GPX trip mapping from day one, most of your backup will be in an
encrypted zip file.  So, I live in modest fear of losing all this data someday,
and might look at some better way to do this.  (Maybe log all my GPX data in
some other app and then import it here later?  I don't know.)

I did have some email interaction with the developer recently, who told me that
the app isn't dead, just done.  I can respect that, given all the software of
mine that I feel is just done.  I'll keep enjoying it and not worry about its
future.

Oh, and as for *how* I'm enjoying it, I should talk about one more thing:
*shorties*.

Philadelphia is a grid.  I like this, because it makes the city much easier for
me to navigate and think about.  The weird layout of Boston was sort of
charming, but also kind of a total pain.  I like the grid.  In Center City, the
grid runs from 30th Street at the west to Front Street (which is basically 1st
Street) at the east.  Right in the middle, Broad Street (which is basically
14th) divides the city in half.  The other main north/south streets are
numbered 2-29.  Then the major east/west streets run from the Schuylkill River
at the west to the Delaware River at the east.  They're mostly named after
trees, and there are few enough that it's pretty easy to name them all.

The thing is, there are lots of other streets in the grid.  For example,
between 11th and 12th is Marvine Street, running north/south.  It's not
*always* there, though, just sometimes.  It runs from Catharine north to
Bainbridge, but then stops.  It shows up again *way* further north at Race,
running just one block to Vine, and then showing up again later.  These streets
have been dubbed "shorties" by my excellent colleague Lacey.  They're great,
with lots of character and not much traffic.  A hundred years ago, each length
of shorty might have its own name, but they were rationalized in the 20th
century.  The street halfway between 8th and 9th is Darien.  If it's between
8th and 9th, but west of center, it's Schell.  If it's east of center, it's
Mildred.  Some blocks have one, two, or all three between them.  (Marvine is a
funny one.  Between Lombard and Walnut, it's Quince instead.  I bet there's
history.)

*Anyway*, I would like to walk down every shorty in center city.  This is not
hard, it's just going to take a lot of time, and a lot of consultation with the
map.  World Uncovered makes that easy.  I think my next plan for tackling these
is to start picking one block between home and work and on the way in, hit all
of its shorties.  Then another one on the way home.  That will only get me
about a quarter of the city, tops, but it's a start.

The real treat is when I stop at a street that's really rich in shorties,
especially interior second-order ones, like this gem:

![10th and Locust](/assets/2024/05/tenth-and-locust.png)

Honestly, look at that tiny length of Irving Street, which often connects two
numbered streets east to west.  Here, it's a tiny little alley inside the
block, only reachable by another shorty.  What a city!
