---
layout: post
title : "PTS 2024: Lisbon"
date  : "2024-05-03T15:19:01Z"
tags  : ["perl", "programming"]
---

Almost exactly a year since [the last Perl Toolchain Summit]({% post_url
2023-05-04-pts-2023-lyon-1-5 %}), it was time for the next one, this time in Lisbon.  Last year, I wrote:

> In 2019, I wasn't sure whether I would go. This time, I was sure that I
> would.  It had been too long since I saw everyone, and there were some useful
> discussions to be had.  I think that overall the summit was a success, and
> I'm happy with the outcomes.  We left with a few loose threads, but I'm
> feeling hopeful that they can, mostly, get tied up.

Months later, I did not feel hopeful.  They were left dangling, and I felt like
some of the best work I did was not getting any value.  I was grouchy about it,
and figured I was done.  Then, though, I started thinking that there was one
last project I'd like doing for PAUSE:  Upgrading the server.  It's the thing I
said I wanted to do last year, but barely even started.  This year, I said that
if we could get buy-in to do it, I'd go.  Since I'm writing this blog post, you
know I went, and I'm going to tell you about it.

## PAUSE Bootstrap

Last year, Matthew and I wanted to make it possible to quickly spin up a
working PAUSE environment, so we could replace the long-suffering "pause2"
server.  We were excited by the idea of starting from work that [Kenichi
Ishigaki](https://metacpan.org/author/ISHIGAKI) had done to create a Docker
container running a test instance.  We only ended up doing a little work on
that, partly because we thought we'd be starting from scratch and didn't know
enough Docker to be useful.

This year, we decided it'd be our whole mission.  We also said that we were not
going to start with Docker.  Docker made sense, it was probably a great way to
do it, but Matthew and I still aren't Docker users.  We wanted results, and we
felt the way to get them was to stick to what we know: automated installation
and configuration of an actual VM.  We pitched this plan to Robert Spier, one
of the operators of the [Perl NOC](http://noc.perl.org/) and he was on board.
I leaned on him pretty hard to actually *come* to Lisbon and help, and he
agreed.  (He also said that a sufficiently straightforward installer would be a
good starting point for turning things into Docker containers later, which was
reassuring.)

At Fastmail, where Matthew and I work, we can take every other Friday for
experimental or out-of-band work, and we decided we'd get started early.  If
the installer was done by the time we arrived, we'd be in a great position to
actually ship.  This was a *great* choice.  Matthew and I, with help from
another Fastmail colleague, Marcus, wrote a program.  It started off life as
`unpause`, but is now in the repo as `bootstrap/mkpause`.  You can read the
[PAUSE Bootstrap
README](https://github.com/andk/pause/blob/master/bootstrap/README.md) if you
want to skip to "how do I use this?".

The idea is that there's a program to run on a fresh Debian 12 box.  That
installs all the needed `apt` packages, configures services, sets up Let's
Encrypt, creates unix users, builds a new perl, installs systemd services, and
gets everything running.  There's *another* program that can create that fresh
Debian 12 box for you, using the DigitalOcean API.  (PAUSE doesn't run in
DigitalOcean, but Fastmail has an account that made it easy to use for
development.)

I think Matthew and I worked well together on this.  We found different rabbit
holes interesting.  He fixed hard problems I was (barely) content to suffer
with.  (There was some interesting nonsense with the state of `apt` locking and
`journald` behavior shortly after VM "cloud init".)  I slogged through testing
exactly whether each cron job ran correctly and got a pre-built perl
environment ready for quick download, to avoid running `plenv` and `cpanm`
during install.

Before we even arrived, we could go from zero to a fully running private PAUSE
server in about two and a half minutes!  Quick builds meant we could iterate
much faster.  We also had a script to import all of PAUSE's data from the live
PAUSE.  It took about ten minutes to run, but we had it down to one minute by
day two.

When we arrived, I took my todo and threw it up on the wall in the form of a
sticky note kanban board.

<center>
<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/53696154513/in/photostream/" title="PTS Stickies: Day 1"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/53696154513_4d606391e7_c.jpg" alt="PTS Stickies: Day 1"/></a>
</center>

We spent day one re-testing cron jobs, improving import speed, and (especially)
asking Andreas König all kinds of questions about things we'd skipped out of
confusion.  More on those below, but without Andreas, we could easily have
broken or ignored critical bits of the system.

By the end of day *two*, we were confident that we could deploy the next day.
I'd hoped we could deploy on day two, but there were just too many bits that
were not quite ready.  Robert had spent a bunch of time running the installer
on the VM where he intended to run the new *production* PAUSE service, known at
the event as "pause3".  There were networking things to tweak, and especially
storage volume management.  This required the rejiggering of a bunch of paths,
exposing fun bugs or incorrect assumptions.

The first thing we did on day three was start reviewing our list of pre-deploy
acceptance tests.  Did everything on the list work?  We thought so.  We took
down pause2 for maintenance at 10:00, resynchronized everything, watched a lot
of logs, and did some uploads.  We got some other attendees to upload things to
pause3.  Everything looked good, so we cut `pause.perl.org` over to pause3.  It
worked!  We were done!  Sort of.

We had some more snags to work through, but it was just the usual nonsense.  A
service was logging to the wrong place.  The new MySQL was stricter about data
validation than the old one.  An accidental button-push took down networking on
the VM.  Everything got worked out in the end.  I'll include some "weird stuff
that happened" below, but the short version is:  it went really smoothly, for
this kind of work.

On day four, we got to work on fit and finish.  We cleaned up logging noise, we
applied some small merge requests that we'd piled up while trying to ship.  We
improved the installer to move more configuration into files, instead of being
inlined in the installer.  Also, we prepared pull requests to delete about
20,000 lines of totally and unused files.  This is *huge*.  When trying to
learn how an older codebase works, it can be really useful to just grep the
code for likely variable names or known subroutines.  When tens of thousands of
lines in the code base are unused, part of the job becomes separating live code
out from dead code, instead of solving a problem.

We also overhauled a lot of documentation.  It was exciting to replace the long
and bit-rotted "how to install a private PAUSE" with something that basically
said "run this program".  It doesn't *just* say that, though, and now it's
accurate and written from the last successful execution of the process.  You
can read [how to install
PAUSE](https://github.com/andk/pause/blob/master/doc/installing-pause.md)
yourself.

Matthew, Robert, and I celebrated a successful PTS by heading off to [Belém
Tower](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bel%C3%A9m_Tower) to see the sights and
eat [pastéis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pastel_de_nata).

I should make clear, finally, that the PAUSE team was five people.  Andreas
König and Kenichi Ishigaki were largely working on other goals not listed here.
It was great to have them there for help on our work, but they got other things
done, not documented in this post!

Here's our kanban board from the end of day four:

<center>
<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/53696383405/in/photostream/" title="PTS Stickies: Day 4"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/53696383405_df7b48cb7d_c.jpg" alt="PTS Stickies: Day 4"/></a>
</center>

## Specifics of Note

### `run_mirrors.sh`

This was one of the two mirroring-related scripts we had to look into.  It was
*bananas*.  Turns out that PAUSE had a list of users who ran their own FTP
servers.  It would, four times a day, connect to those servers and retrieve
files from them directly into the users' home directories on PAUSE.

Beyond the general bananas-ness of this, the underlying non-PAUSE program in
`/usr/bin/mirror` no longer runs, as it uses `$*`, eliminated back in v5.30.
Rather than fix it and keep something barely used and super weird around, we
eliminated this feature.  (I say "barely used", but I found no evidence it was
used at all.)

### `make-mirror-yaml.pl`

The other mirror program!  This one updated the YAML file that exposes the CPAN
mirror list.  Years ago, the mirror list was eliminated, and a single name now
points to a CDN.  Still, we were diligently updating the mirror list every
hour.  No longer.

### `rrrsync`

You can rsync from CPAN, but it's even better to use
[`rrr`](https://metacpan.org/dist/File-Rsync-Mirror-Recent).  With `rrr`, the
PAUSE server is meant to maintain a few lists of "files that changed in a given
time window".  Other machines can then synchronize only files that have changed
since they last checked, with occasionally full-scan reindexes.

We got this working pretty quickly, but it seemed to break at the last minute.
What had happened?  We couldn't tell, everything looked great, and there were
no errors.  Eventually, I found myself using `strace` against perl.  It turned
out that during our reorganization of the filesystem, we'd moved where the
locks live.  We put in a symlink for the old name, and that's what `rrr` was
using… but it didn't follow symlinks when locking.  Once we updated the
configuration to use the canonical name and not the link, everything worked.

Matthew said, "You solved a problem with `strace`!"  I said, "I know!"  Then we
high fived and got back to work.

I was never happy with the symlinks we introduced during the filesystem
reorganization, but I *was* happy when I eliminated the last one during day
four cleanup!

### the root partition filled up

We did all this work to keep the data partition capable of growth, and then `/`
filled up.  Ugh.

It turned out it was logs.  This wasn't too much of a surprise, but it was
annoying.  It was especially annoying because we decided early on that we'd
just accept using `journald` for all our logging, and that should've kept us
from going over quota.

It turned out that on the VM, something had installed a service I'd never heard
of.  Its job was to notice when something wanted to use the named syslog
socket, and then start `rsyslogd`.  Once that happened, we were double-logging
a ton of stuff, and there was no log rotation configured.  We killed it off.

We did other tuning to make sure we'd keep enough logs without running out of
space, but this was the interesting part.

### Future Plans

We have some.  If nothing else, I'm *dying* to see my [pull request
405](https://github.com/andk/pause/pull/405) merged.  (It's the thing I wrote
last year.)  I have a bunch of half-done work that will be easier to finish
after that.  But the problem was:  would this wait *another* year?

We finished our day — just before heading off to Belém — by talking about
development between now and then.  I said, "Look, I feel really demotivated and
uninterested if I can't continuously ship and review real improvements."
Andreas said, "I don't want to see things change out from under me without
understanding what happened."

The five of us agreed to create a private PAUSE operations mailing list where
we'd announce (or propose) changes and problems.  We all joined, along with
Neil Bowers, who is an important part of the PAUSE team but couldn't attend
Lisbon.  With that, we felt good about keeping improvements flowing through the
year.  Robert has been shipping fixes to log noise.  I've got a significant
improvement to email handling in the wings.  It's looking like an exciting year
ahead for PAUSE!  (That said, it's still PAUSE.  Don't expect miracles, okay?)

## Thanks to our sponsors and organizers

The Perl Toolchain Summit is one of the most important events in the year for
Perl.  A lot of key projects have folks get together to get things done.  Some
of them are working all year, and use this time for deep dives or big lifts.
Others (like PAUSE) are often pretty quiet throughout the year, and use this
time to do everything they need to do for the year.

Those of us doing stuff need a place to work, and we need to a way to get there
and sleep, and we're also pretty keen on having a nice meal or two together.
Our sponsors and organizers make that possible.  Our sponsors provide
much-needed money to the organizers, and the organizers turn that money into
concrete things like "meeting rooms" and "plane tickets".

I offer my sincere thanks to our organizers: Laurent Boivin, Philippe Bruhat,
and Breno de Oliveira, and also to our sponsors.  This year, the organizers
have divided sponsors into those who handed over cash and those who provided
in-kind donation, like people's time or paying attendee's airfare and hotel
bills directly.  All these organizations and people are helping to keep Perl's
toolchain operational and improving.  Here's the breakdown:

Monetary sponsors:
[Booking.com](http://www.booking.com/),
[The Perl and Raku Foundation](https://www.perlfoundation.org/),
[Deriv](https://deriv.com/?utm_source=perltoolchainsummitdotorg&utm_medium=pr&utm_campaign=sponsorship&utm_content=homepage_logo),
[cPanel, Inc](https://cpanel.net/)
[Japan Perl Association](https://japan.perlassociation.org/),
[Perl-Services](https://www.perl-services.de/),
[Simplelists Ltd](https://www.simplelists.com/),
[Ctrl O Ltd](https://www.ctrlo.com/),
[Findus Internet-OPAC](ihttps://www.findus-internet-opac.de/),
Harald Joerg,
Steven Schubiger.

In kind sponsors:
[Fastmail](https://www.fastmail.com/),
[Grant Street Group](https://www.grantstreet.com/),
[Deft](https://deft.com/),
[Procura](https://www.procura.nl/),
[Healex GmbH](https://healex.systems/),
[SUSE](https://www.suse.com/),
[Zoopla](https://www.zoopla.co.uk/).

Breno especially should get called out for organizing this from five thousand
miles away.  You never could've guessed, and it ran exceptionally smoothly.
Also, it meant I got to see Lisbon, which was a terrific city that I probably
would not have visited any time soon otherwise.  Thanks, Breno!
