---
layout: post
title : "rjbs in Rio, part ii"
date  : "2025-07-01T12:00:00Z"
tags  : ["travel"]
---

After a rocky start, I had two great days in Rio, leaving me about four days of
vacation.  This meant lots more walking around, a little more beach, a bunch
more food (70% cassava, 20% pork, 10% other), more forró music, and not enough
caipirinhas.  If you didn't read "[rjbs in Rio, part i]({% post_url
2025-06-30-rjbs-in-rio-part-i %})", you should start there.

## Saturday

Friday, I ended my day by watching the sunset, having a beer, and listening to
two different bands on the way back to my apartment.  How would I top that?

Fortunately, I had help.  Breno and Barbara were back on the scene to show me
around to cool things I would never have done on my own.  I had a lazy morning
of scrambed eggs and orange juice, and some amount of walking around the
neighborhood.  By this point, I'd decided that all the fearmongering around
getting mugged in Rio was wildly overblown, but it did seem like I should pay
attention to where I wandered, so I didn't head too far in unknown directions,
but I did see a bunch more shops, including things that I probably should've
tried eating, but didn't.  A little after ten, though, I headed to the farmer's
market at General Glicério street.  I was interested in lots of the things, but
stuck to the suggestions: a *pastel* (sort of like an empanada), a *tapioca*
(like a taco or crêpe made with cassava), and *caldo de cana* (sugarcane
juice).  I posted a lot of photos in Flickr, but I'll highlight this one, the
tapioca:

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54617669272/in/album-72177720327189278" title="farmer&#x27;s market"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54617669272_783ddc26ac_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="farmer&#x27;s market"/></a>

It doesn't look like much, but it was weirdly delicious.  Breno and his
daughter had one with nutella and banana — a classic pairing to stuff into
anything.  I had the more traditional cheese and coconut, which seemed weird
but tasted great.  I was also simultaneously pleased and weirded out by the
shell.  It was soft and chewy, and had a subtle flavor that I can't describe.
I would eat many more, with many different fillings.

We ran into a bunch of their friends and their friends' kids, which made for a
good farmer's market experience.  Who doesn't like watching little kids play in
a crowded but basically safe space?  Eventually, though, we headed out toward
[Tacaca do Norte](https://www.instagram.com/tacaca_do_norte/).  I don't know
anything about this place other than it was billed as *the* place to get açai.
Also, Brazil had already been billed as *the* place to get açai, so this was
meant to be the best of the best.  I had actually never had the stuff, although
it's definitely been sort of everywhere here.  It just seemed like it would be
some boring fruity health food.

There was some debate over whether I should get a huge order or a tiny order.
We settled on tiny (I was so full already!), but what we got seemed pretty big
to me!  If you haven't had an açai bowl (or maybe if you've only had whatever
it is we serve in the US), I guess I'd say it's a bit like frozen yogurt or
masked frozen bananas, like a cold, sweet, stiff pudding.  It came with two
little pots, one of tapioca beads and one of granola.  I love putting granola
into goo, so that was great.  Even so, I couldn't eat more than half of it.
Even if I'd been very hungry, I'm not sure I could've.  Meanwhile, people all
around me were eating it by the liter.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618578706/in/album-72177720327189278" title="my first açai"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618578706_de81a7396a_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="my first açai"/></a>

After that, we split up.  Breno and I continued on alone to
[CRAB](https://crab.sebrae.com.br/), a museum of local and indigenous crafts.
This was very cool, and had both traditional-style objects and contemporary
reinterpretations.  I'm pretty sure that a few of the things I saw were also in
my grandmother's house.  Did she ever visit Brazil?  I have no idea.

Rather than any photos of CRAB, though, here's one of *Central do Biscoito*
(Biscuit Central), a cookie store with a weirdly compelling mascot:

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618889270/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Biscuit Central!"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618889270_6fcb79737c_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Biscuit Central!"/></a>

After that, I think there was some sort of general walking around, but it led
us toward the [Candelária
Church](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candel%C3%A1ria_Church), a beautiful (but
slightly dilapidated) church.  Across the street, there were June Festival
celebrations, and that's where we were headed.  One of Breno's friends was
going to be part of the celebration, as a stilt walker.  This was a good value
event.  We watched a bunch of stilt walking, heard a bunch of music, saw some
unexpected [Capoeira](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capoeira), and even ran
into Breno's brother and family!  We saw the thing that had been the Olympic
torch when Rio hosted.  Also, critically, we got caipirinhas.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618793963/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Festa Junina happenings"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618793963_4edd2f58aa_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Festa Junina happenings"/></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618576036/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Festa Junina happenings"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618576036_1f2fd8049b_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Festa Junina happenings"/></a>

We lingered a good long while, but eventually we were pretty beat (or maybe *I*
was beat and Breno was polite) and we headed out.  I think this was my first
time riding the Rio Metrô, the subway.  I picked up a subway pass as a
souvenir.  These are great souvenirs: they're cheap, they don't take up space,
and they're unambiguously associated with the place you went.  This one was
even better.  It's called a *RioCard*, which is an anagram of *Ricardo*.

The subway was clean, easy to ride, and felt safe.  I rode it again alone a
couple times, and have no complaints.  Breno and I chatted the whole time, even
as he overshot his stop by accident and accompanied me to mine on purpose.
When I got back to my apartment, I took off my shoes, called home, and zoned
out until it was time to sleep.

Also, here's a picture of Breno's niece wearing my hat.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618780754/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Festa Junina happenings"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618780754_5f99e556b8_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Festa Junina happenings"/></a>

## Sunday

I have no recollection or photos of Sunday morning.  I think that's when I
explored a street market near my apartment.  It was pretty cool, and I bought a
nice aloha shirt.  The seller told me I should go a size smaller, and I didn't
listen, but I think she was right.  Gloria suggests it should be easy to have
shortened, so I might just do that!  I also hit the grocery store (my local
*Zona Sul*) and picked up some soap and shampoo, so I could get cleaner.  I
felt a little weird about buying so much for my three remaining days, but I
felt better about not being gross.

I met Breno and his daughter near Biscuit Central, and we headed to the
[Metropolitan Cathedral of Saint
Sebastian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rio_de_Janeiro_Cathedral).  Coming to
Rio, I knew that this was one of my top priorities to see.  The photos made it
clear that I'd be happy with it.  In person, it was even better.  It was
beautiful.  It made great use of the light while still providing a somber
space.  It felt like it really fit into the place it was, and it was still
clearly a cathedral.  I have seen many cathedrals, and even the best are often
just very well constructed versions of "yet another cathedral".  This wasn't
that.  Also, as we approached I could still smell the frankinsence from the
morning's mass.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618549986/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Rio&#x27;s Metropolitan Cathedral"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618549986_b045f73594_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Rio&#x27;s Metropolitan Cathedral"/></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618550006/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Rio&#x27;s Metropolitan Cathedral"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618550006_060fa62cd8_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Rio&#x27;s Metropolitan Cathedral"/></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618860780/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Rio&#x27;s Metropolitan Cathedral"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618860780_7c2c34c690_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Rio&#x27;s Metropolitan Cathedral"/></a>

I want to learn more about the place, including what required aspects of
cathedral design it fulfilled in unusual ways.  That seems certain to be a
thing.  Seeing my photos, Mark Dominus said, "A solid refutation of the people
who complain about Brutalism."

The plan had been to take the old fashioned tram from the cathedral to the
way-uphill Bohemian neighborhood of Santa Teresa, but the line for the tram was
two and a half hours long, which didn't seem worth it.  We got an Uber.  Up in
Santa Teresa, we looked around shops and watched trams go by, which was a
pretty decent substitute for actually riding the thing.  Eventually, Barbara
met us and we got lunch: [feijoada](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feijoada).

Feijoada is (I am told) the national dish of Brazil.  It originates in
Portugal, but let's get real:  it's meat, beans, and rice, so it's something
people eat everywhere.  It was served with collard greens and tapioca flour,
and it was *great*.  Could I have eaten our three person order?  Yes, probably,
but it's surely also good that I didn't try to.  (Also, it would've been rude.)
There is no photographic evidence, but I think I had a caipirinha there.  We
went to Bar Simplesmente, which apparently is a great place to go for feijoada.
It certainly seemed like it to me!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618882695/in/album-72177720327189278" title="getting feijoada in Santa Teresa in Rio"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618882695_b25eeaec2c_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="getting feijoada in Santa Teresa in Rio"/></a>

The other notable part of the meal was the fried hunks of cassava.  At first I
said, "Hey these potatoes are great!"  Almost as soon as I said it, I realized
it wasn't potato, and Barbara said, "This is cassava."  I said, "This is just
like the yucca fries they used to serve at the Cuban place we liked."  Barbara
politely explained that cassava and yucca are the same thing, and my mind was
totally blown.  I feel like I really should've know this, but I didn't.  Then
again, I don't live in a place where every single meal contains cassava!

From there, we walked a bit more and got some coffee.  I usually only drink
mocha lattes, but these weren't commonly on offer in Rio, so mostly I just had
tea.  Here, though, I got a cappucino, which was good!  (I've had them before
and not liked them.)  We saw a small exhibit of a fashion designer's work in a
cool gallery space with a great view.  Soon, though, we came to the [Escadaria
Selarón](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Escadaria_Selar%C3%B3n).

The Escadaria Selarón is a (pretty long!) outdoor staircase.  If asked, I'd say
they led from Santa Teresa "all the way down" to Lapa, but I'm not really sure.
At the bottom, we could see the huge, defunct aqueduct that the tram rides
across.  The point isn't the destination, though, it's the stairs themselves.
They're covered in tiles, and the work was done over twenty years by Jorge
Selarón, an artist who lived in the area.

The steps were pretty popular, with lots of other tourists there to see, but
they weren't crowded or annoying, and we took our time wandering down and
looking at the tiles.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618882555/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Escadaria Selarón"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618882555_1c97b82485_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Escadaria Selarón"/></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618796358/in/album-72177720327189278" title="the aqueducts"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618796358_8337768a0a_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="the aqueducts"/></a>

After the steps, Breno and I carried on alone, heading to Glória market and the
nearby June Festival celebration.  Breno was very keen on me trying a bunch of
sweets, so he bought a bag and we sat around drinking beer and eating candy.
This was better than it sounds.  I think the best thing we had was [pé de
moleque](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/P%C3%A9_de_moleque).  As far as I'm
concerned this is just shiny peanut brittle (the best kind of peanut brittle),
but is weirdly pitched as being a local thing for Brazil.  The one we got here
was actually soft, sort of like a Pay Day bar, but much nicer.  My only photo
of the sweets is pretty bad, so I won't put it in here.  Instead, here's me
with Glória station, which made me think of Gloria every time I saw it, of
course.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618782939/in/album-72177720327189278" title="rjbs and Glória"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618782939_06e869f981_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="rjbs and Glória"/></a>

We'd meant to take a bike ride after this, but instead we sat around talking
until it was dark and we were beat.  This was good!  Breno and I (and Barbara,
on other occasions) spent a lot of time talking about this and that.  Often
this was work, sometimes politics, and sometimes movie, TV, and books.  Most
notably, though, I got a lot of Brazilian history, which was all interesting
and valuable as I explored the place.  More than once, I saw a monument or
building that I understood much better because of a bit of history I'd learned
earlier in the week.

From Glória station, Breno went home and I went back to my apartment in
Ipanema, where I called home and caught up, then stared at the wall for a while
until it was time to sleep.

Every night, I was watching a little [Resident
Alien](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resident_Alien_(TV_series)).  It was good
travel TV.  Not too stressful, sort of funny, and easy to stop watching when
vacation was over.  If I couldn't sleep, I'd watch one more episode.  Sunday
night, as I wrapped up one last episode, I got a message from my sister that my
dad had gone to the hospital.  (He's fine now.)  I waited up to get more
information, and while doing that decided to floss my teeth again.  Doing
*that*, I managed to pop the crown off one of my molars, which led to another
hour or so awake, searching the web for "dental adhesive brands Brazil".
Eventually, I just cleaned everything involved and jammed it back in my mouth.
It stayed put until I got home, but it meant I avoided peanut brittle until I
got back!

Monday, I was on my own, so it was no problem to sleep in, and so staying up
too late thinking about my teeth was no problem.  More on the last two days in
another post.
