---
layout: post
title : "rjbs in Rio, part i"
date  : "2025-06-30T12:00:00Z"
tags  : ["travel"]
---

So, I went to Rio de Janeiro!  It was great, and it'll probably take me several
entries to sufficiently cover the trip.  Here we go!

## Background

The background for this trip is worth mentioning.  For years, I've been seeing
my friend Breno at the annual Perl Toolchain Summit.  He was also a regular in
an online D&D game I ran.  All the time, he'd say, "Look, man, you've *gotta*
come visit Brazil.  It'd be so great!"  I would say, "I bet it would, but I
really mostly travel where work sends me, and I can't see a work trip to Brazil
happening *any* time in the near future."

Then, early last year, I got an email from a frequent flyer program telling me
that if I didn't use my reward miles, I'd lose them.  I managed to not lose
them immediately, but it seemed like this was a sign.  I tried to think of
where I might go, and I remembered all of Breno's exhortations.  I looked it
up, and I could definitely get to Rio and back on miles.  I emailed him and
said, "Okay, when would be good?"  He wrote back with a long enthusiastic
analysis of the year, including this:

> The Festas Juninas are probably less known outside Brazil but also very
> typical and popular, happening all over the country in June/July, usually in
> the afternoon or at dusk. it's less crowded and "partyesque" but there is
> dancing and fire and costumes and very typical food and drinks that are
> harder to find the rest of the year.

Sounded perfect!  I decided to make plans.

## Getting there

Over the course of the next year, this went from vague idea to definite plan,
and I started to put together a list of things I'd like to see or do.  I read a
lot of "what you must see in Rio" pages, plus ones that covered more obscure
topics.  I asked Breno and Barbara (Breno's wife, also a friend) to tell me
whether my list was any good.  By the time the trip was upon me, I had what
felt like a great set of things to do.  Even better, Barbara provided a
suggested day-by-day agenda, which would've been a pain for me.  It included a
bunch of "and then we'll take you to something we think is really worth it."
Who could ask for more?

Meanwhile, though, the articles I read kept saying, "You're going to love Rio!
It's so wonderful!  You are *definitely* at high risk of getting mugged,
though!"  Mostly I shrug this stuff off.  I live in Philly, and I'm used to
people talking about my home like it's a warzone.  Still, I got a little
anxious.  Breno reassured me, I decided to keep my phone in my purse, and I
tried to put aside any fears.  Then, on the 18th, I got my bag and headed to
the airport.  It was going to be a bit of a long trip, but I'm used to going to
Australia.  This would be no big deal.

Really, it mostly wasn't.  The only complication was that instead of a 6 hour
layover between flights, I had a 6 hour layover plus a 16 hour delay.  It was
mostly overnight, so I didn't get to tool around Miami.  I mostly sat around
the lounge and the Holiday Inn and watched TV.  It was fine, but I didn't love
losing a day.

Eventually, I landed at GIG.  (Did you know that Rio's international airport is
named after [the guy who wrote _The Girl from
Ipanema_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant%C3%B4nio_Carlos_Jobim)?  It is!).
Instead of landing at 8:00 in the morning, I landed around 1:00 in the morning,
and then I had to get through immigration and customs and find a cab.  Then the
cab got pulled over by the police, who ordered me out of the car at gunpoint
and searched all my stuff.  Honestly, I might have been more nervous if I
wasn't so tired.

## Thursday

I feel a bit badly about beginning my trip story this way, but it's how it
began.  The good news (spoilers!) is that it was the only remotely worrying
event of my trip, and I wan't even really worried at any point.  We were let go
pretty quickly, and then I was in my apartment and asleep.  The next day, I was
on the beach and everything was good.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618778888/in/album-72177720327189278" title="the beach at Ipanema"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618778888_99f61d3201_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="the beach at Ipanema"/></a>

My first day was supposed to be Wednesday, which I would've spent exploring the
beaches and maybe finding one of the nearby art museums, but that was shot.  It
was Thursday, and that meant lunch with Breno and Babs and their daughter.  We
had "angu", which I'd describe as something like a polenta-and-offal stew.  It
was great, right up my alley!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618796488/in/album-72177720327189278" title="angu at Angu do Gomes"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618796488_4cd40bf854_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="angu at Angu do Gomes"/></a>

Then it was on to the Museum of Tomorrow (the architecture was great, but we
mostly coasted through the exhibits), and then São Cristóvão Fair, which I
later described as "what if Philly's Reading Terminal Market was in Brazil and
had three competing live music acts at all times".  It was great, although a
little loud.  We had a bunch more delicious food (lots of photos on Flickr),
and I had my second [caipirinha](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caipirinha) of
the day.  If I have one regret of the trip, it's not drinking more of those.  I
suspect it'll be hard to find or make a good one at home, but we'll see.

A caipirinha is a bit like a daquiri.  It's made with cachaça, which is a bit
like white rum.  Then sugar, lime, and ice.  It seems like *the* drink of
Brazil, or at least Rio.  (Brazil is huge.  If you sort of vaguely agree that
Brazil isn't very small, go look it up.  It's the fifth largest country in the
world, smaller than the USA and larger than Australia.  I don't want to get
accused of saying something like "the mint julep is *the* drink of the US".)
Anyway, I had probably four or five across the trip, and I could've done with
more like eight.

The music at the fair was foreshadowing.  There was lots of live music all over
the place, and it didn't seem like a tourist gimmick.  It was always pretty
upbeat, and everybody sang along and danced with everything.  "Oh, this is a
very famous song," was definitely one of the things Breno said to me the most.

Also notable: the ice cream.  Breno pointed at the menu -- and I'm sorry to say
I didn't get a photo!  "On the right," he said, "are all the boring flavors you
know.  Chocolate, vanilla, mint.  Who cares?  On the *left*, though, it's all
fruit flavors, and I won't bother translating, because you don't have words in
English for any of these.  They're all South American fruits."  I had
[jaboticaba](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jabuticaba).  The ice cream was very
good, but the exciting thing was this list of weird fruits that I'd never heard
of.  Weirder, jaboticaba fruit grow right on the trunk of the tree?  Just
weird.

There was at least one fruit on the list that I *did* know: pineapple.  I was
surprised and pleased to learn, though, that in Brazil they *don't* call
pineapple *ananás*, as they do in Portugal and nearly everywhere else.  They
call it *abacaxi*.  Rejecting the worldwide standard name for that fruit made
the people of Brazil seem even more like my brothers and sisters.  Too bad they
still use the metric system.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54617692667/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Feira de São Cristóvão"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54617692667_d26d836796_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Feira de São Cristóvão, a caipirinha"/></a>

After the fair, Breno dropped me off at my apartment.  There's only an hour of
time difference from home to Rio, but I was beat.  I wasn't ready to collapse
into sleep, but I was no good for any kind of conversation by the end of the
night.  I zoned out and eventually crashed.

## Friday

Friday was my first day on my own, and I had a plan:
[Sugarloaf](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sugarloaf_Mountain)!  Sugarloaf
Mountain is a 1300' mountain at the mouth of Rio's bay.  It's called Sugarloaf
because it looks like a sugarloaf.  A sugarloaf is how sugar was sold for
hundreds of years, well until the 19th century, so I guess at one point it was
pretty useful to say "it's that mountain that looks like a sugarloaf!"  Now, I
think of a sugarloaf as "a compressed hunk of sugar shaped like that mountain
in Rio".

I knew the mountain would have a good view of the city and the bay, but I was
mostly in it for the cable car ride.  I'm not sure why, since I'm not a huge
lover of heights, but it seemed pretty compelling.  Before I came down, Breno
had said, "the cable car!  Like in
[Moonraker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moonraker_(film))!"  I had never
watched Moonraker, so I watched it on the flight down.  I don't recommend it.
On the other hand, the cable car ride was great.  Happily, the mountain was
even better than that!

I'd hoped to ride up in the mid-afternoon so that I could ride down during
sunset.  In retrospect, I think I could've made that work, but it wasn't a
clear win at the time.  I hadn't been able to buy tickets online, so I'd have
to go out to the mountain and hope to get timed entry tickets for a reasonable
time.  I didn't want to get there only to find out that I couldn't get tickets,
so I ended up going early.  I wasn't disappointed, and honestly I'm not sure
I'd have been any happier with sunset.

The cable car actually goes to two mountains.  First, to Urca Hill, then
Sugarloaf Mountain.  It's two separate cable car rides, and you can spend as
much time as you want on Urca Hill between them.  I spent a few hours, and it
was great.  There was food (I had corn, a sausage sandwich, ice cream, and
later a beer), there were crafts, and there were amazing views in every
direction.  When I couldn't appreciate the view any more, I sat down and read a
book for ten minutes, then got back to the view.  It was excellent.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618760454/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Sugarloaf Mountain"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618760454_c78f188730_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Sugarloaf Mountain"/></a>

That view above is actually from Urca Hill.  In the distance, you can see
[Corcovado](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corcovado) ("the hunchback"), the
mountain on which Rio's giant [Christ the
Redeemer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christ_the_Redeemer_(statue)) statue
stands.  It was visible from all over the city, and I saw it up close and
personal later in the trip.  This was one of the cooler views of it, though.

From Urca Hill, I took the second cable car to Sugarloaf.  It was very cool,
and I think the views were marginally better, but it was much more
crowded-feeling in that smaller space, and the food and shops weren't inviting.
I didn't stay up there half as long as I was on Urca Hill.  In fact, when I got
back to Urca Hill I spend more time there, getting an ice cream cone and doing
some people-watching.

After that, I was ready for a break.  I got back to my apartment, zoned out for
a little bit, and then hit the grocery.  I picked up OJ, eggs, bread, and tea,
which meant that I could start every day with a little breakfast.  That meant I
wouldn't be hungry until dinner, most days, if I kept busy, which made every
day easier.  I also picked up a packet of Globo biscuits, which are a sort of
flavorless cassava-based Funyun.  They were everywhere, in Rio, but also had
nothing much to recommend them other than the crunchiness.

I *also* also picked up some iced mate tea, which I enjoyed drinking most days.
I think I'm going to see if I can get any tea leaves for making it at home, but
we'll see.

After I'd relaxed for a while, I headed to
[Arpoador](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arpoador), the peninsula between
the Ipanema and Copacabana beaches.  There's a big rock there (Arpoador Rock),
which some people say is the best place in the world to see the sunset.  I was
skeptical, but it *was* very good.  The rock was swarming with people, but I
managed to find a place to watch the sun set.  There are lots more photos in my
trip album, but here's one:

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618760098/in/album-72177720327189278" title="the sunset at Arpoador"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618760098_a82258abd1_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="the sunset at Arpoador"/></a>

After that, I walked slowly back to my apartment.  I stopped at two concerts,
both of which were great, and I had a Brahma beer, which was good, especially
for the weather.  I didn't get to try many Brazilian beers, but I enjoyed this
one.  Looking back, I wish I'd bought one more beer to drink on the walk.  I
should try to enjoy "walk with a beer" time when traveling to places where
that's legal.

Eventually, I made it back to my apartment and turned in.  More on the rest of
the trip in future posts!
