---
layout: post
title : "rjbs in Rio, part ⅲ"
date  : "2025-07-02T12:00:00Z"
tags  : ["travel"]
---

I'd had four days in Rio so far (and one in Miami, better left unmentioned).  I
had covered lots of ground for things I wanted to see, and also lots of things
I didn't know I should see.  I had eaten so, so much cassava.  I had lots of
things left unseen, lots of food left uneaten, and just about two days left to
fill.  I think I made good use of my time, but I definitely left things to
do… next time?

## Monday

Monday, I was on my own again for most of the day.  This is not a complaint.
Breno and Barbara were *incredibly* generous with their time!  Also, even
though I usually enjoy touring around *with* people, it can be good to wander
alone, with no worry about whether you're bring a frightful bore to your
companion.  I had a handful of things on my potential agenda for the day, but I
only ended up visiting two of them:  Parque Lage and the Botanical Garden.

Many, many times, I had to remind myself that [Parque
Lage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parque_Lage) is not Portguese for "Lake
Park".  It's named after Henrique Lage.  I don't know much about him, but he
seems to have been a very wealth industrialist in the early 20th century, so
I'm okay not knowing more, I think.  Now, the land around his mansion is a
large public park with lots of tree cover and plenty of interesting features.
When I was there, I don't think the building was open for visiting — or at
least I couldn't find an open entrance.  Instead, I walked around the grounds,
looked at ponds, hiked through overgrown paths, and took a *lot* of photos.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618774599/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Parque Lage"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618774599_eb63e78d8c_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Parque Lage"/></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54617685397/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Parque Lage"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54617685397_79d3d7dc1d_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Parque Lage"/></a>

I was there for a good two hours, just walking and looking around.  It's a
little odd that I don't have more to say, but I think it's all in the photos.
Once in a while I sat down and read a chapter or two of a book.  I took a photo
for an older couple walking together.  At one point, I accidentally walked the
wrong way, left the path, wandered through the woods for a while, and found a
surprise view of the city through the trees:

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618771929/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Parque Lage"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618771929_62b940ab7b_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Parque Lage"/></a>

What else is there to say?  If I lived nearby, I'd go there often to sit and
read and make take a little lunch with me.

Afterward, I had meant to walk a little south to [the
lagoon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rodrigo_de_Freitas_Lagoon) and walk south
along it to the city's botanical garden.  I forgot, though, and just walked
straight down R. Jardim Botânico, which was sort of a boring walk.  It wasn't
bad, and I did some people watching, but mostly it was uninteresting.
Eventually, though, I came to the garden, which was *not* uninteresting.  I
spent four hours walking through the gardens, only *partly* because I had such
a hard time navigating them.

If I ran the botanical garden, I'd be pushing Apple and Google to add a bunch
more detail to their maps, because the paper map they handed out did not cut
it.  I had a hard time finding almost everything, but in the end it all worked
out.  I'll try to summarize some of the best things I saw:

There was a "biblical garden", full of plants mentioned in the Bible.  The
plaque for each one provided a chapter and verse for where to find them.

There was a primitive hut among a bunch of trees, and all I could think of was
the botanical gardens in The Shadow of the Torturer, where the narrator
encountered a similar (also seemingly South American) hut.

There was an orchid house with many kinds of orchid in bloom.

There was a garden of only medicinal plants, including notes on what cultures
used them, and for what purposes.

There was a big section of cacti, with a surprising amount of diversity.

There were the obligatory Japanese garden and rose garden.

Also, there were *monkeys*.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54617662247/in/album-72177720327189278" title="the Botanical Garden in Rio"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54617662247_ef63cef333_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="the Botanical Garden in Rio"/></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618857010/in/album-72177720327189278" title="the Botanical Garden in Rio"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618857010_d38e83f4fb_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="the Botanical Garden in Rio"/></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54617663052/in/album-72177720327189278" title="the Botanical Garden in Rio"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54617663052_a79a5b9105_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="the Botanical Garden in Rio"/></a>

Probably there are people who know how to write compelling, detailed,
informative notes on a visit to a place like this.  I'm not one of them,
though.  I'll say this:  I enjoyed the place enough that I spent four hours
there and might have stayed longer if I didn't have anywhere to be.  Oh, and if
the food was better.  I had a pretty mediocre salad there, which was absolutely
my own fault.  I should've eaten something on the walk.

After the garden, I headed back to my apartment, cooled off a little, and did a
quick bout of shopping.  My plan was to meet Breno nearby for dinner and
drinks.  We went to Boteco Belmonte and hung out for a good while, trying small
plates and having a few drinks.  The food was good, and the company was better.
Despite my small lunch and all my walking, I wasn't terribly hungry, or I
would've kept exploring the menu.  I had my last caipirinha of the trip, but I
also decided to try their Moscow Mule.  It was a strange one, with the ginger
added as a sort of creamy foam on top.  I'm not sure I'd order it often, but it
was fun as a weird surprise.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618796213/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Moscow mule"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618796213_df6b57f812_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Moscow mule"/></a>

I had meant to see some other things on Monday, but I was pretty happy with the
hours spent just looking at the outdoors.  In retrospect, I just wish I'd
gotten one more caipirinha, to go.  Or maybe on the way back to my apartment.

## Tuesday

Tuesday was my last day!  My flight out of Rio was at 23:00, and I had to leave
my apartment around eleven.  Barbara and Breno graciously invited me to come
by, leave my bags, and spend the day.  I spent the morning packing, running a
few more errands, and finishing off most of my groceries.

On my way to their place, my phone ran out of data.  I'd bought an eSIM with
[Airalo](https://www.airalo.com/), which was mostly just fine.  (Actually, the
service I got in Brazil was not as good as what I'd gotten elsewhere, but it
was totally adequate.)  I'd even topped it off the previous day, but I think
that all my roaming in the parks had me using more data than I thought.  As my
Uber got me closer to their place, I realized that the map wasn't updating, and
Discord was offline.  I knew their address, and I *thought* I remembered how to
contact them, but once I was out of the car, I was stumped.  Eventually, I
received an SMS from Breno, and I went back to his place and got in.  I had
misremembered how to ring him from the front gate!

Inside, I bought more data.  More importantly, I got a tour of their place, had
some chit chat, and then it was time for lunch.  Lunch was homemade vegan
[moqeueca](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moqueca), with plantains replacing the
fish.  It was *delicious*.  I'm pretty sure that my grandmother sometimes made
a similar fish stew, but I haven't yet confirmed this with my siblings.
Anyway, it was great, and was followed by a dessert of passionfruit and
condensed milk.  Yum!

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618782799/in/album-72177720327189278" title="vegan moqueca"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618782799_5e340b1e43_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="vegan moqueca"/></a>

After lunch, Breno and I dropped his daughter at school and stopped into [Casa
Roberto Marinho](https://casarobertomarinho.org.br/), a large house that's been
converted into a gallery space.  It was good, and was the *nth* place I've seen
in the past few years featuring art depicting
[Laocoön](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laoco%C3%B6n).  Weird?  I don't know.

From there, the plan was to see the one absolute must-see thing in Rio: the
giant [Christ the
Redeemer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christ_the_Redeemer_(statue)) statue.
The statue is 98' tall, atop a 26' pedestal, atop a 2,300' mountain.  You can
see it from all sorts of places in the city.  I saw it from Sugarloaf.  I saw
it from the beach.  I saw it from the highway while the police searched my
bags.  It was everywhere!  Also, it was going to have an incredible view of the
city.

The problem is… the weather was absolutely miserable.  Every day until Tuesday
had been sunny and clear, but Tuesday it was cloudy, windy, and raining.  We
hoped it would clear up before we went up, but it didn't.  I wasn't too fussed,
really.  From up close, I knew I'd see the whole statue.  Still, it was not the
ideal weather for it.  Breno was a sport and drove us up the mountain, where we
caught a train to the top.

Here's a view of the weather taken near where we caught the train:

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618757619/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Christ the Redeemer"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618757619_2efd31575a_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Christ the Redeemer"/></a>

An aside:  I had called this train a
"[funicular](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Funicular)" when talking to friends,
but further research tells me that it isn't one.  It is a "[rack
railway](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rack_railway)", where the train is
driven by a cog along a toothed rail.  This allows for much steeper gradients
than a normal rail line.  It was pretty cool, and from inside the train, you
could definitely see and feel the slope at which the train was traveling.  This
particular railway is the [Corcovado Rack
Railway](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corcovado_Rack_Railway), and I will
definitely be reading more about it later.

Once we got to the top, the situation was both better and worse than I'd
imagined.  In *some* directions, we could see quite a ways, and I could
recognize places I'd been or had heard of.  In others, there was just a dense
fog.  It was pretty obvious that on a good day, you'd be able to see forever,
and that the view of the city would be absolutely gorgeous.  I wasn't even
disappointed, though.  The view was still great, and the statue was really
impressive.  I was also delighted to find out the pedestal on which the Christ
stands house a tiny, tiny church.  We stepped inside briefly to get out of the
wind, but we didn't stay long, and I didn't get a photo.  It seemed a little
uncouth to do so.

The weather up there wasn't great.  It was probably 55 or 60ºF, rainy, and
windy.  Breno was *clearly* miserable, and also seemed sort of baffled that I
wasn't.  What can I say?  Back here in Philly, we get way down below freezing,
so 55ºF and windy is merely annoying.  If the view had been better, I might've
stuck around while he got out of the rain and off to pick up his kid.  As it
was, I saw everything there was to see pretty quickly, and we both got out of
there and onto the train.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618552271/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Christ the Redeemer"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618552271_34317d848b_c.jpg" width="600" height="800" alt="Christ the Redeemer"/></a>

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618770318/in/album-72177720327189278" title="Christ the Redeemer"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618770318_441760ebcd_c.jpg" width="800" height="600" alt="Christ the Redeemer"/></a>

Back at their place, we had good while to sit around, talk, and have dinner.
"We'll order pizza," they said, "but it's going to be terrible compared to
anything in the states."  I didn't lie and say it wouldn't be.  I've had pizza
outside the states, I know how it goes.  (It was actually tasty, it just wasn't
good pizza.)  After that, it was time to finally leave Rio.  I got an Uber, got
to the airport, and eventually flew home with no difficulty.  I had plenty of
things left in Rio that I could've stayed to do, but as always, it was really
good to get home to my people.

I had meant to bring *something* for Barbara and Breno.  I didn't know they'd
be such exemplary hosts, but either way it would've been gracious.  I at least
remembered to bring something for their daughter: Gritty.  What better thing to
bring as an ambassador from Philadelphia?  Fortunately, he was well received,
and I felt some civic pride at Gritty's continued ability to make life a little
better.

<a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/rjbs/54618795973/in/album-72177720327189278" title="me, Eva, Gritty"><img src="https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/54618795973_6158d68d85_c.jpg" width="530" height="800" alt="me, Eva, Gritty"/></a>

Anyway, if I go again, I'll remember to bring a bottle of Malört or something!

As for whether I'll go again… it's hard to know.  I'm surprised I went at all,
honestly.  There isn't much natural pressure to visit South America.  Work
doesn't send me there, conferences haven't tried to entice me.  It's expensive
to get to, even if it's cheap to spend time there.  Now that I've been, I could
imagine spending more time there and enjoying it.  On the other hand, there is
a *lot* of the planet left that I haven't even seen once.  I think I'll have to
play it by ear.

In the meantime, I'll be looking for the best caipirinha in Philadelphia.  Wish
me luck.
